Document: RFC-0000-ISIS
Category: Informational
Date: September 2026
Editor: Ze Software Project

Independent Reconstruction of the IS-IS Intra-Domain Routing Protocol

Abstract

   This document specifies the base Intermediate System to Intermediate
   System (IS-IS) intra-domain routing protocol. It describes the
   protocol architecture, addressing model, routing information, PDU
   processing, and conformance rules needed by an implementation of the
   2002 base protocol.

   This text is an independently authored reconstruction. It does not
   reproduce the wording or tables of ISO/IEC 10589:2002. ISO/IEC owns
   and publishes that International Standard, which remains the
   authoritative source. This document has no endorsement from ISO, IEC,
   or the IETF.

Independent Reconstruction Notice

   The requirements in this document restate the behavior of the base
   2002 protocol in new words. They are normative within this document.
   A difference between this text and ISO/IEC 10589:2002 MUST be
   resolved in favor of the International Standard when ISO conformance
   is claimed.

   Later extensions to IS-IS update the base protocol. An extension
   applies only when this document identifies it as an update or another
   applicable specification requires it. Implementations MUST NOT treat
   a common Internet deployment practice as a restriction of the base
   protocol.


Table of Contents

   Abstract
   Independent Reconstruction Notice
   1. Introduction
      1.1. Purpose
      1.2. Design Context
   2. Status and Scope
      2.1. Status of This Document
      2.2. Scope
      2.3. Scope Boundaries
      2.4. External Specifications
   3. Requirements Language
      3.1. Normative Keywords
      3.2. Conditions and Failures
   4. Terminology
      4.1. OSI and Routing Terms
      4.2. IS-IS Terms
      4.3. Abbreviations
      4.4. Names and Values
   5. Protocol Architecture
      5.1. System Roles and Routing Levels
      5.2. Subnetworks and Circuits
      5.3. Domains, Areas, and Reachable Prefixes
      5.4. Functional Split
      5.5. Protocol Design Properties
      5.6. Environmental Requirements
      5.7. Subnetwork-Independent Component Model
   6. Addressing
      6.1. NPAI Structure
      6.2. Address Construction and Encoding
      6.3. Domain-Wide Address Requirements
      6.4. Manual Area Addresses
      6.5. Area and Prefix Matching
      6.6. Address Ordering
      6.7. Internet Deployment Profile
   7. Information Bases and Metrics
      7.1. Protocol State
      7.2. Decision Process Interface
      7.3. Routing Metrics
      7.4. Broadcast Pseudonodes
      7.5. Usable Links
      7.6. Multiple LSPs from One Originator
   8. Decision Process
      8.1. Inputs and Calculation Instances
      8.2. SPF Graph Construction
      8.3. Reciprocal-Link and Overload Checks
      8.4. TENT and PATHS Processing
      8.5. Deterministic Removal of Excess Paths
      8.6. Attached Level 2 Selection
      8.7. Partition-Repair Election and Calculation Order
      8.8. Partition Detection and Virtual Adjacencies
      8.9. Virtual-Link Encapsulation and Level 2 Transit
      8.10. Area Address Computation
      8.11. Route Preference and QoS Fallback
   9. Update Process
      9.1. Responsibilities and Interfaces
      9.2. Origination Triggers and Managed Information
      9.3. LSP Fragmentation
      9.4. Periodic and Event-Driven Generation
      9.5. Level 1 Non-Pseudonode LSPs
      9.6. Level 1 Pseudonode LSPs
      9.7. Level 2 Non-Pseudonode LSPs
      9.8. Level 2 Pseudonode LSPs
      9.9. Checksum, Local Storage, and Stable Encoding
      9.10. Flooding State
      9.11. LSP Receive Processing
      9.12. SNP Receive Processing
      9.13. CSNP and PSNP Generation
      9.14. LSP Transmission Scheduling
      9.15. Sequence Ordering, Own-LSP Conflicts, and Confusion
      9.16. Remaining Lifetime and Purging
      9.17. Reliable Database Synchronization
      9.18. Database Validation
      9.19. LSP Database Overload and Waiting State
      9.20. Shared Database and Resource Use
      9.21. Update Timers and Constants
   10. Circuit and Adjacency Operation
      10.1. Circuit Classes and Routing Domain Boundaries
      10.2. Coordination with ISO 9542
      10.3. Point-to-Point Startup and ISH Processing
      10.4. Point-to-Point IIH Transmission
      10.5. Point-to-Point IIH Acceptance
      10.6. Point-to-Point Adjacency State Machine
      10.7. Point-to-Point End System Adjacencies
      10.8. ISO 8208 Circuits
         10.8.1. SVC Establishment and Address Selection
         10.8.2. DA Call Failure and Reservation
         10.8.3. Reverse-Path Reuse
         10.8.4. ISO 9542 and IS-IS on DA Circuits
         10.8.5. DA Reachability and Cost Changes
      10.9. Broadcast Circuit Startup and Hello Transmission
      10.10. LAN IIH Acceptance and Adjacency State
      10.11. LAN Adjacency Capacity
      10.12. DIS Election, LAN ID, and Pseudonodes
      10.13. End System Polling and Broadcast ESH Processing
      10.14. ISO 8802 Multicast Bindings
   11. PDU and TLV Encoding
      11.1. Encoding Conventions
      11.2. Common Header
      11.3. PDU Length and Extension Handling
      11.4. LAN IIH PDUs
      11.5. Point-to-Point IIH PDU
      11.6. Link State PDUs
         11.6.1. LSP Checksum
      11.7. Complete Sequence Numbers PDUs
      11.8. Partial Sequence Numbers PDUs
      11.9. Base TLV and Item Encodings
         11.9.1. Area Addresses, Type 1
         11.9.2. IS Neighbors, Type 2
         11.9.3. ES Neighbors, Type 3
         11.9.4. Metric Octets
         11.9.5. Partition Designated Level 2 IS, Type 4
         11.9.6. Prefix Neighbors, Type 5
         11.9.7. 48-Bit IS Neighbors, Type 6
         11.9.8. Variable-Length IS Neighbors, Type 7
         11.9.9. Padding, Type 8
         11.9.10. LSP Entries, Type 9
         11.9.11. Authentication Information, Type 10
         11.9.12. Originating LSP Buffer Size, Type 14
      11.10. PDU-Specific TLV Rules
      11.11. Password Processing
      11.12. Receive Acceptance
   12. Timers and Constants
      12.1. Timer Jitter and Resolution
      12.2. Architectural Constants
      12.3. ISO 8802 Address Constants
      12.4. Managed Timer Defaults
      12.5. Other Managed Defaults
      12.6. ISO 9542 Operating Constraints
      12.7. ISO 8473 Operating Constraint
      12.8. Later Deployment Profiles
   13. Forwarding and Receive Processing
      13.1. Routing Metric Selection
      13.2. Level and Next-Hop Selection
      13.3. Forwarding Result and Redirects
      13.4. Partition-Repair Encapsulation
      13.5. Receive Demultiplexing and Decapsulation
      13.6. ISO 8802 LLC Binding
   14. Management and Conformance
      14.1. Management Model
      14.2. Managed Objects and Packages
      14.3. Attribute Change Semantics
      14.4. Notifications and Operational State
      14.5. Protocol Implementation Conformance
         14.5.1. Static Conformance
         14.5.2. Dynamic Conformance
         14.5.3. Performance and Capacity
      14.6. Management-Information Conformance
         14.6.1. Roles and Encoding
         14.6.2. Level Profiles and Name Bindings
         14.6.3. Conformance Statements
      14.7. Optional Features and Exceptions
   15. Security Considerations
      15.1. Base Authentication
      15.2. Routing-State Attacks
      15.3. Management Security
      15.4. Later Security Extensions
   16. IANA Considerations
   17. References
      17.1. Normative References
      17.2. Informative References
   Appendix A. Protocol Conformance Declaration
      A.1. Purpose
      A.2. Identification and Profile
      A.3. Functional Options
      A.4. Capacity and Performance
      A.5. Additional and Exception Information
   Appendix B. Management Conformance Declarations
      B.1. Management Conformance Summary
      B.2. Manager-Role Statement
      B.3. Agent-Role Object Statement
      B.4. Name-Binding Statement
   Appendix C. Edition Lineage and Annex Disposition
      C.1. Edition History
      C.2. Normative Annexes
      C.3. Informative Annexes
   Appendix D. Compatibility with Later RFCs
      D.1. Base and Update Boundary
      D.2. Separated Extension Families
   Appendix E. Source and Restatement Limits
      E.1. Independent Status and Source Boundary
      E.2. Reconstruction Method
      E.3. Material Deliberately Not Reproduced
   Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Purpose

   IS-IS lets Network Layer entities in Intermediate Systems exchange
   configuration and routing information inside one routing domain. The
   entities use that information to maintain routes for the
   connectionless-mode network service and to relay Network Protocol
   Data Units (NPDUs).

   The protocol exchanges control PDUs between Intermediate Systems. It
   also uses information from the End System to Intermediate System
   protocol and reports forwarding failures to the connectionless-mode
   network protocol. The protocol assumes an underlying connectionless
   service, either supplied directly or supplied by a convergence
   function.

1.2.  Design Context

   IS-IS is a Network Layer protocol. It works with the protocol that
   provides the connectionless-mode network service and with the End
   System to Intermediate System routing exchange protocol. These are
   the base CLNS and ES-IS dependencies, rather than a modern Internet
   profile. End Systems need no IS-IS function beyond those companion
   protocols.

   A routing domain can contain point-to-point links, multipoint links,
   connection-oriented subnetworks, and broadcast LANs. The hierarchy
   divides a domain into areas. Level 1 routes within an area. Level 2
   routes among areas and toward other routing domains.

   A Level 1 Intermediate System sends an NPDU for another area toward a
   reachable Level 2 Intermediate System in its own area. Level 2
   routing carries the NPDU toward the destination area. Level 1 routing
   then carries it to the destination system.

2.  Status and Scope

2.1.  Status of This Document

   This document is an independent protocol specification. It is neither
   an ISO publication nor an Internet Standards Track specification. Its
   purpose is to state the base protocol in a form suitable for
   implementation review and conformance extraction.

   The words "base protocol" in this document mean the feature set in
   the second edition published in 2002. A later RFC or other
   specification can update that behavior. Such an update does not
   become a base rule merely because Internet implementations commonly
   support it.

2.2.  Scope

   This document specifies all of the following behavior within one
   routing domain:

   a.  Intermediate Systems exchange configuration and routing
       information.

   b.  Senders encode the IS-IS PDUs that carry that information.

   c.  Receivers interpret protocol control information.

   d.  Implementations provide the functions required for conformance.

   The procedures cover PDU exchange between Network Layer entities,
   service primitives at the subnetwork boundary, and route calculation
   constraints. The route constraints apply when the participating
   Intermediate Systems hold a consistent routing information base.

2.3.  Scope Boundaries

   The base protocol does not select routes from the source and
   destination together. It does not adapt routes to domain-wide traffic
   load, and it does not guarantee delivery of every offered NPDU. It
   does not use Level 1 paths to repair a partitioned Level 2 subdomain.

   Full inter-area connectivity therefore requires a connected Level 2
   subdomain. Area partition repair can use Level 2 paths. End Systems
   without the recommended configuration timer can lose connectivity for
   a time after some local topology changes.

   Inter-domain route selection, address assignment by an addressing
   authority, and the policy for choosing administrative domains are
   outside this document. Static reachable prefixes can aid inter-domain
   routing at a domain boundary.

2.4.  External Specifications

   The base protocol uses definitions and services from the external
   specifications listed here. For a dated reference, later amendments
   and revisions do not form part of the 2002 base protocol. For an
   undated reference, the latest edition applies. Exact base conformance
   MUST use those rules.

   * [ISO7498-1] ISO/IEC 7498-1:1994, OSI Basic Reference Model.
   * [ISO7498-3] ISO/IEC 7498-3:1997, OSI naming and addressing.
   * [ISO7498-4] ISO/IEC 7498-4:1989, OSI management framework.
   * [ISO8208] ISO/IEC 8208:2000, X.25 Packet Layer Protocol.
   * [ISO8348] ISO/IEC 8348:1996, Network Service Definition.
   * [ISO8473] ISO/IEC 8473-1:1998, connectionless-mode Network
     Layer protocol.
   * [ISO8473-4] ISO/IEC 8473-4:1995, provision over the OSI data
     link service.
   * [ISO8648] ISO 8648:1988, internal organization of the Network
     Layer.
   * [ISO8802-1] ISO/IEC TR 8802-1:1997, overview of LAN standards.
   * [ISO8802-2] ISO/IEC 8802-2:1998, logical link control.
   * [ISO8802-3] ISO/IEC 8802-3:2000, CSMA/CD LANs.
   * [ISO8802-5] ISO/IEC 8802-5:1998, token ring LANs.
   * [ISO8802-6] ISO/IEC 8802-6:1994, Distributed Queue Dual Bus
     LANs.
   * [ISO9314] ISO/IEC 9314, all parts, Fiber Distributed Data
     Interface.
   * [ISO9542] ISO 9542:1988, End System to Intermediate System
     exchange.
   * [ISO9575] ISO/IEC TR 9575:1995, OSI Routing Framework.
   * [ISO9577] ISO/IEC TR 9577:1999, Network Layer protocol
     identification.
   * [ISO15802-1] ISO/IEC 15802-1:1995, MAC service definition.
   * [ISO10165-1] ISO/IEC 10165-1:1993 and [ISO10165-4] ISO/IEC
     10165-4:1992, management information and managed-object
     definition.
   * [ISO10733] ISO/IEC 10733:1998, OSI Network Layer management
     information.
   * [ISO8824] ISO/IEC 8824-1:1998 and [ISO8825] ISO/IEC
     8825-1:1998, ASN.1 and its Basic, Canonical, and Distinguished
     Encoding Rules.
   * [ISO9646-7] ISO/IEC 9646-7:1995 and [ISO10165-6] ISO/IEC
     10165-6:1997, conformance statement methods.
   * [ISO9646-1] ISO/IEC 9646-1:1991 and [ISO9646-2] ISO/IEC
     9646-2:1991, the conformance testing editions on which the 2002
     base protocol was developed.

   ISO/IEC 9646-1:1994 and ISO/IEC 9646-2:1994 superseded the 1991
   editions. The 2002 base protocol nevertheless uses the 1991 editions
   because its conformance provisions were developed against them.

3.  Requirements Language

3.1.  Normative Keywords

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in BCP
   14 when, and only when, they appear in all capitals.

3.2.  Conditions and Failures

   A normative paragraph names the responsible actor and the condition
   for an action. When the base protocol defines no on-wire error
   response, this document says that the configuration or environment is
   nonconforming. An implementation MUST NOT invent a protocol response
   that changes interoperable behavior.

   A receiver that is required to ignore information MUST exclude that
   information from protocol state and route calculation. The receiver
   MAY record a local diagnostic unless a later requirement forbids it.

4.  Terminology

4.1.  OSI and Routing Terms

   This document uses the OSI meanings of Network Layer, Network Service
   Access Point, Network entity, routing, Network protocol, Network
   relay, and Network Protocol Data Unit. It also uses the following
   terms from the OSI Network Layer architecture: subnetwork, End
   System, Intermediate System, subnetwork service, Subnetwork Access
   Protocol, Subnetwork Dependent Convergence Protocol, and Subnetwork
   Independent Convergence Protocol.

   The addressing terms are subnetwork address, Subnetwork Point of
   Attachment, and Network Entity Title. The LAN terms are
   multi-destination address, media access control, and broadcast
   medium. The routing framework terms are administrative domain,
   routing domain, hop, and black hole.

4.2.  IS-IS Terms

   area:  The Level 1 routing subdomain. An area keeps detailed routes
      for its own systems and enough information to reach other areas.

   neighbor:  A system that a PDU can reach by crossing one subnetwork.

   adjacency:  Local routing information for one neighbor through one
      circuit. A broadcast circuit has a separate adjacency for each
      neighbor and for each applicable routing level.

   circuit:  Local routing information associated with one local
      Subnetwork Point of Attachment (SNPA). Management represents a
      circuit with a linkage managed object.

   link:  The communication path between two neighbors. A link is up
      when the two SNPAs can communicate.

   Designated Intermediate System:  An Intermediate System elected on a
      LAN to perform extra work, including originating Link State PDUs
      for the LAN pseudonode.

   pseudonode:  The graph node that represents a broadcast subnetwork.
      Each attached system has one link to that node. The Designated
      Intermediate System originates the pseudonode Link State PDUs.

   broadcast subnetwork:  A subnetwork that can attach any number of End
      Systems and Intermediate Systems. One service request can send a
      subnetwork PDU to a selected group of attached systems.

   general topology subnetwork:  A subnetwork with any number of systems
      and no convenient connectionless group-transmission service.

   routing subdomain:  A set of Intermediate Systems and End Systems in
      one routing domain.

   Level 2 subdomain:  All Level 2 Intermediate Systems in one routing
      domain.

   jitter:  A small random timer variation that reduces synchronized
      timer expiration across systems.

4.3.  Abbreviations

   AFI     Authority and Format Indicator
   CLNS    Connectionless-mode Network Service
   CSNP    Complete Sequence Numbers PDU
   DA      dynamically assigned
   DED     dynamically established data link
   DIS     Designated Intermediate System
   DTE     Data Terminal Equipment
   DSP     Domain Specific Part
   ES      End System
   ESH     End System Hello PDU
   FDDI    Fiber Distributed Data Interface
   GDMO    Guidelines for the Definition of Managed Objects
   HDLC    High-Level Data Link Control
   IDI     Initial Domain Identifier
   IDP     Initial Domain Part
   IIH     Intermediate System to Intermediate System Hello PDU
   IS      Intermediate System
   ISDN    Integrated Services Digital Network
   ISH     Intermediate System Hello PDU
   L1      Level 1
   L2      Level 2
   LAN     Local Area Network
   LLC     Logical Link Control
   LSP     Link State PDU
   MAC     media access control
   MAN     Metropolitan Area Network
   MCS     Management Conformance Summary
   MICS    Management Information Conformance Statement
   MOCS    Managed Object Conformance Statement
   MRCS    Managed Relationship Conformance Statement
   NET     Network Entity Title
   NLPID   Network Layer Protocol Identifier
   NPAI    Network Protocol Addressing Information
   NPDU    Network Protocol Data Unit
   NSAP    Network Service Access Point
   NSDU    Network Service Data Unit
   OSI     Open Systems Interconnection
   OSIE    Open Systems Interconnection Environment
   PCI     Protocol Control Information
   PICS    Protocol Implementation Conformance Statement
   PDU     Protocol Data Unit
   PSNP    Partial Sequence Numbers PDU
   PSTN    Public Switched Telephone Network
   QoS     Quality of Service
   RD      Redirect PDU
   SAP     Service Access Point
   SDU     Service Data Unit
   SEL     selector
   SN      subnetwork
   SNAcP   Subnetwork Access Point
   SNDCP   Subnetwork Dependent Convergence Protocol
   SNICP   Subnetwork Independent Convergence Protocol
   SNPA    Subnetwork Point of Attachment
   SNP     Sequence Numbers PDU
   SNPDU   Subnetwork Protocol Data Unit
   SNSDU   Subnetwork Service Data Unit
   SPF     shortest path first
   SRM     Send Routing Message flag
   SSN     Send Sequence Numbers flag
   SVC     Switched Virtual Circuit
   TLV     type-length-value
   UI      Unnumbered Information

4.4.  Names and Values

   A management parameter or ordinary protocol constant uses lower
   camel case, as in manualAreaAddresses.  An architectural constant
   retains the identifier shown in Section 12.2.  A protocol field name
   uses title words, as in Remaining Lifetime.  This document places a
   literal field or parameter value in quotation marks when confusion
   with descriptive text is possible.

   These typography rules carry no wire encoding. A sender MUST use the
   encoding assigned to the field, regardless of how this document
   prints its name. A receiver MUST interpret the encoded value and MUST
   NOT infer a value from typography.

5.  Protocol Architecture

5.1.  System Roles and Routing Levels

   An End System originates and receives NPDUs but does not relay them.
   IS-IS adds no required End System behavior beyond the connectionless
   Network Layer protocol and the End System to Intermediate System
   protocol.

   A Level 1 Intermediate System MUST route directly toward destinations
   in its own area. When the destination is outside that area, it MUST
   route toward a reachable Level 2 Intermediate System in its area. If
   no such Intermediate System is reachable, the forwarding failure
   rules apply and the system MUST NOT treat an arbitrary Level 1 path
   as an inter-area path.

   A Level 2 Intermediate System participates in the Level 2 subdomain
   and routes toward destination areas or another routing domain. It
   also MUST operate as a Level 1 Intermediate System in its own area
   except on a circuit where manualL2OnlyMode is "True".

   When manualL2OnlyMode is "True" for a circuit, the Level 2
   Intermediate System MUST use that circuit only for Level 2 traffic.
   When the value is "True" on every circuit, the system does not
   operate as a Level 1 Intermediate System in the area. A deployment
   MUST preserve this per-circuit feature even if its usual profile
   operates Level 1 and Level 2 together.

5.2.  Subnetworks and Circuits

   A broadcast subnetwork provides one transmission to a group of
   attached systems. A general topology subnetwork is modeled as
   point-to-point links, each of which joins exactly two systems.

   General topology subnetworks include multipoint links, permanent
   point-to-point links, and dynamically established data links. On a
   multipoint link, the primary can communicate directly with every
   secondary. Two secondaries cannot communicate directly.

   A permanent point-to-point link stays connected until failure or a
   management action. A static DED is established by management and
   stays established until failure or a management action. The protocol
   MUST treat those two cases equivalently in its subnetwork-independent
   functions.

   A dynamically assigned DED is established in response to traffic and
   is cleared after its idle timer expires. The arriving NPDU supplies
   the information used to select the remote address. Intermediate
   Systems MUST NOT exchange IS-IS PDUs on a dynamically assigned
   circuit. If an implementation sends such a PDU, that circuit behavior
   is nonconforming.

   Subnetwork-independent functions MUST treat every supported
   subnetwork as providing a connectionless service. When the underlying
   service is connection-oriented, a convergence function MUST provide
   that view.

5.3.  Domains, Areas, and Reachable Prefixes

   An administrative domain can contain several routing domains. A
   system at a routing-domain boundary can receive reachable address
   prefixes from management or an inter-domain protocol. Each prefix
   identifies NSAP addresses that can be reachable through an associated
   SNPA.

   For a multi-destination subnetwork, the prefix state MUST include the
   addressing information needed to reach that SNPA or an indication
   that the information can be derived from the destination NSAP
   address. If neither form is available, the prefix MUST NOT be used
   for forwarding.

   The Level 2 routing function MUST process a reachable address prefix
   as it processes information for a Level 1 area. An Intermediate
   System at the boundary can then relay a matching NPDU through Level 2
   routing and deliver it outside the domain.

   A routing-domain boundary lies on a subnetwork between Intermediate
   Systems. Management MUST mark the circuit linkage as externalDomain
   on the boundary side. It MUST mark an internal circuit as internal. A
   wrong marking is a management error and can import or suppress
   routing information contrary to the intended domain boundary.

   Area addresses within one routing domain can come from several
   addressing authorities. Hierarchical address assignment therefore
   does not limit the domain or area boundary selected by management.

5.4.  Functional Split

   IS-IS separates subnetwork-independent functions from
   subnetwork-dependent functions. The independent functions recognize a
   broadcast subnetwork and a general topology subnetwork. They MUST NOT
   depend on other properties of a particular link service.

   The subnetwork-independent functions MUST provide full-duplex NPDU
   transmission between any pair of neighbor systems. If the service
   cannot provide both directions, the systems MUST NOT use it as an up
   link.

   The routing function MUST read routing control information from an
   NPDU, select forwarding state from its destination, and manage path
   changes. When a path fails and a valid alternate exists, it MUST
   select that alternate. It MUST accept subnetwork reports that an SNPA
   or system has failed or recovered.

   When forwarding cannot relay an NPDU, the routing function MUST
   notify the error-reporting function of the connectionless Network
   Layer protocol. This rule includes an unreachable destination and a
   packet that requires segmentation when segmentation is forbidden.

   Congestion control manages local resources. The congestion component
   MUST prevent buffer deadlock under the environmental assumptions in
   Section 5.6. A lack of enough resources is an environmental failure
   and does not permit the system to advertise false reachability.

   The subnetwork-dependent functions MUST hide link-service details
   from the independent functions. They use the End System to
   Intermediate System protocol to learn neighbor NETs, neighbor SNPAs,
   and operational Intermediate Systems.

   When required by the subnetwork, a convergence function MUST
   initialize the data link, fragment hop by hop for a smaller maximum
   SDU, and establish or clear dynamically established links. A failure
   in one of those actions MUST be reported through the applicable
   subnetwork failure interface.

5.5.  Protocol Design Properties

   The base protocol works with the connectionless Network Layer
   protocol and the End System to Intermediate System protocol. It
   requires no new End System function. It supports several
   administrative and routing domains through boundary routing
   information.

   Under the environmental assumptions in Section 5.6, the protocol
   accepts NPDUs for reachable destinations and rejects NPDUs for
   destinations known to be unreachable. It adapts to topology changes
   and can split traffic across equal-cost paths. It does not adapt
   routes from domain-wide traffic measurements, apart from possible
   local queue effects.

   With stable topology and no continuing database corruption, the
   protocol converges in finite time to routes determined by topology
   and metrics. The result depends on the current topology rather than
   the order of prior events. Temporary loss or corruption of routing
   PDUs MUST NOT leave the domain permanently inconsistent after valid
   information is exchanged again.

   Convergence time is designed to scale with the domain diameter and
   data-link speeds. The protocol limits processing, memory use, and
   control traffic. It tolerates imprecise parameters, and it provides
   ways to detect, isolate, and repair common database errors.

   A topology with a cut set greater than one remains connected after
   any single failure. The design keeps the chance of delivering an
   NPDU to the wrong End System very low. These properties depend on the
   address and environmental requirements in this document.

   Management can inspect routing state, parameters, counters, and
   calculated routes. It can change parameters, metrics, and timers.
   Correct protocol operation MUST NOT depend on management action that
   repairs ordinary transient protocol state.

   The protocol supports mixed systems, link technologies, and topology
   types. Its hierarchy supports large domains. It can use Level 2 paths
   to repair a partitioned Level 1 area, but it MUST NOT use Level 1
   paths to repair the Level 2 subdomain.

   Route calculation supports the default, delay, expense, and error
   metrics described in Section 7.3. The base authentication field
   carries a password. That mechanism can detect accidental mismatches
   but does not protect against a serious security threat. A stronger
   mechanism is an update to the base protocol.

   The protocol can add routing functions while retaining the earlier
   functions as a subset. It also supports a transition between routing
   algorithms without a domain-wide shutdown. The specification that
   defines an updated algorithm governs that transition.

5.6.  Environmental Requirements

   A conforming environment MUST provide enough memory, processing time,
   and buffers for the implementation to meet its protocol duties. It
   MUST provide timer expiration events and a data path with a very low
   chance of undetected corruption. If these resources are absent,
   correct operation is not guaranteed.

   A point-to-point service MUST let both systems complete startup
   before they exchange protocol PDUs. It MUST report remote startup,
   and it MUST prevent a PDU from an earlier startup from arriving after
   the current startup completes.

   After a point-to-point startup completes, the service MUST preserve
   the order of PDUs sent during that startup. If it cannot deliver an
   SDU, it MUST disconnect both directions in a timely manner and report
   the failure to both systems. It MUST also report other failures and
   degraded conditions.

   Undetected data corruption on a point-to-point service MUST be a very
   low probability event. The base engineering target is less than one
   such event in four years. A service outside that target can reduce
   protocol performance and reliability.

   A broadcast service MUST support one transmission addressed to a
   subset of attached systems. PDU reordering, loss after detected
   corruption, and receiver overrun MUST each be low probability events.
   The base engineering target is about one event per thousand PDUs or
   less.

   On a broadcast service, undetected data corruption and non-transitive
   connectivity MUST each be very low probability events. Non-transitive
   connectivity exists when one system hears two peers but those peers
   cannot hear each other. The base engineering target is less than one
   event of either kind in four years.

   A broadcast service need not report every failure or degraded
   condition that causes NPDU loss. IS-IS therefore MUST detect loss and
   reachability changes through its own broadcast procedures. An
   implementation MUST NOT rely on a link-layer failure report that the
   service does not promise.

5.7.  Subnetwork-Independent Component Model

   The decision process calculates routes separately for Level 1 and
   Level 2, and separately for each supported metric. It reads the link
   state database and writes forwarding databases containing output
   adjacencies.

   The update process originates, receives, stores, and floods Link
   State PDUs. A Link State PDU identifies the originator's adjacencies
   and their metrics. Topology or management changes can cause
   generation, and periodic generation repairs lost state.

   The update process MUST flood Level 1 LSPs throughout their area and
   MUST NOT flood them outside that area. It MUST flood Level 2 LSPs
   throughout the Level 2 subdomain and MUST NOT flood an LSP outside
   the routing domain. It MUST apply its configured upper bound to
   routing control traffic.

   The forwarding process manages buffers, receives data NPDUs from the
   receive process, and looks up the applicable forwarding database. It
   selects an output adjacency and requests a redirect or error report
   when the companion protocol requires one.

   The receive process accepts IS-IS PDUs selected by the intra-domain
   routing NLPID, routing information learned through the End System to
   Intermediate System protocol, and data NPDUs from the connectionless
   protocol. It MUST pass each accepted item to the function assigned to
   that PDU or information type. A PDU that fails the receive checks
   MUST follow the discard and error behavior specified for that PDU.

6.  Addressing

6.1.  NPAI Structure

   An NSAP address or NET is a variable-length value defined by the OSI
   addressing architecture. IS-IS parses its preferred binary encoding
   as follows:

             +----------------------+-------------+---------+
             |     Area Address     |  System ID  |   SEL   |
             +----------------------+-------------+---------+
             |      variable        | 1..8 octets | 1 octet |
             +----------------------+-------------+---------+

   The Area Address is the complete high-order part before the System ID
   and selector. The System ID identifies a system. The selector is the
   final octet and identifies the Network entity or upper-layer entity
   that receives the PDU.

   Every routing domain MUST select one System ID length from one
   through eight octets. Every Intermediate System in that domain MUST
   parse the System IDs of all systems with that length. An
   implementation MUST support at least one permitted length. Management
   MUST choose a length supported by every Intermediate System in the
   domain.

   A System ID length outside the permitted range is invalid. Mixed
   System ID lengths make the domain nonconforming, and protocol
   behavior is not defined. The protocol has no dynamic test that can
   make such a domain safe.

6.2.  Address Construction and Encoding

   Addressing authorities assign NSAP addresses and NETs. The domain
   authority MUST construct their NPAI according to the OSI Network
   Service Definition.

   When a Network address uses a decimal-digit DSP, the domain authority
   MUST use an odd number of DSP digits with a Data Country Code or
   E.164 IDI. It MUST use an even number of DSP digits with every other
   IDI format. A value with the wrong parity is nonconforming because
   IS-IS cannot parse its final fields reliably.

   A sender MUST encode a NET or NSAP address with the preferred binary
   encoding. A sender MUST obtain an area address by removing the final
   System-ID-length plus one octets from the corresponding encoded NSAP
   address.

   A sender MUST encode an address prefix with the preferred binary
   encoding when the prefix ends outside the IDP. When the prefix ends
   inside the IDP, it MUST encode each decimal digit as one semi-octet
   from 0000 through 1001 and MUST NOT add padding characters.

   All NPAI carried in connectionless Network Layer PDUs or IS-IS PDUs
   MUST use the preferred binary encoding. Any AFI and corresponding DSP
   syntax is permitted when it obeys the construction rules above.

6.3.  Domain-Wide Address Requirements

   The routing-domain authority MUST enforce the address constraints in
   this section. IS-IS assumes they hold and is not required to detect a
   violation dynamically. A violation makes correct routing uncertain.

   All systems with the same area address MUST belong to the same area.
   A reachable address prefix therefore MUST NOT match an area address
   used by an area in the same routing domain. An implementation need
   not test this condition after management changes.

   Within one area, every system MUST have a unique System ID. Across
   the routing domain, every Level 2 Intermediate System MUST have a
   unique System ID. All systems in the domain MUST use the same System
   ID length.

   No two End Systems in an area may have NSAP addresses that differ
   only in the selector. Management MUST prevent that assignment. If it
   does not, routing cannot distinguish the two End Systems by their
   system portion.

   An End System is eligible to neighbor a Level 1 Intermediate System
   only when its area address matches an entry in that Intermediate
   System's manualAreaAddresses. The matching entry can be the area
   address in the Intermediate System's own NET or another configured
   synonymous address. If no entry matches, the Intermediate System MUST
   NOT accept the End System as a Level 1 neighbor.

   When reachable prefixes aid routing between two routing domains, an
   area address in one domain SHOULD NOT match an area address in the
   other under Section 6.5. A violation can make a reachable prefix
   ambiguous. The base protocol defines no automatic repair.

   Every End System and Intermediate System in the routing domain MUST
   be able to originate and forward NPDUs containing any NSAP format
   permitted by the OSI Network Service Definition. End System addresses
   SHOULD obey these domain constraints. A conforming implementation can
   route another valid End System address with extra configured
   information, but the resulting route can be less direct.

6.4.  Manual Area Addresses

   An area can have several synonymous area addresses. Each Intermediate
   System holds its local list in manualAreaAddresses. Every address in
   that list, combined with the local System ID and the Network Layer
   selector, identifies a valid NET for that Intermediate System.

   Management MUST include every area address associated with the local
   Intermediate System in manualAreaAddresses. It MUST include the area
   address of every adjacent End System and Level 1 Intermediate System
   that must form a Level 1 adjacency through that system. A missing
   entry prevents the required adjacency from becoming valid.

   Two Level 1 Intermediate Systems MUST have at least one common entry
   in manualAreaAddresses before they form a Level 1 adjacency. A Level
   1 Intermediate System and an End System MUST have the End System's
   area address in common. If the required match is absent, the
   Intermediate System MUST NOT initialize that adjacency at Level 1.

   A Level 1 Intermediate System MUST advertise its manualAreaAddresses
   in the Area Addresses information of its Level 1 LSPs.  Level 2
   Intermediate Systems in the area MUST form the union of those
   addresses.  Section 9.7 selects partitionAreaAddresses for the Level
   2 LSPs of a repair-capable system and areaAddresses for those of
   another Level 2 system.

   Each Intermediate System has a maximumAreaAddresses parameter.
   Implementations MUST support a value of at least three.  Management
   MAY configure a smaller value.  All Intermediate Systems in one area
   MUST use the same configured value.  A mismatch can prevent
   adjacencies from initializing or can partition the area.

   The area-address union can contain more values than
   maximumAreaAddresses.  Section 8.10 defines the common reduction
   order and the event required when a local address is removed.

   When a Level 1 Intermediate System receives a data NPDU, it MUST
   compare the destination area address with its areaAddresses. If
   source routing supplies the next destination, it MUST compare that
   entry instead. If no entry matches, the system MUST treat the
   destination as outside its area and use Level 2 routing.

6.5.  Area and Prefix Matching

   To match an encoded NSAP address against an area address or address
   prefix, the matcher MUST first determine whether the candidate
   extends into the DSP. If it does, the matcher MUST compare the
   candidate with the encoded NSAP and MUST include any binary-encoding
   padding.

   If a prefix ends before the DSP, the matcher MUST remove all inserted
   padding from the encoded NSAP before comparison. The result is called
   NSAP-prime in this section.

   If the selected NSAP form has fewer semi-octets than the candidate,
   the matcher MUST report no match. Otherwise, it MUST report a match
   only when every candidate semi-octet equals the corresponding leading
   semi-octet of the selected NSAP form. It MUST report no match for any
   other value.

6.6.  Address Ordering

   Unless a procedure defines another order, an implementation MUST
   compare NSAP addresses, NETs, and SNPA addresses in their specified
   encoded octet form.

   If the encodings have different lengths and the shorter is a prefix
   of the longer, the shorter address compares lower. Otherwise, the
   comparer MUST append zero octets to the shorter encoding and compare
   both values as unsigned integers. The first octet is the most
   significant octet.

6.7.  Internet Deployment Profile

   Internet deployments commonly use a six-octet System ID and a zero
   selector in a NET. Those choices form a deployment profile. They do
   not change the base range of one through eight octets or the
   domain-wide agreement rule.

   An implementation that claims base-protocol conformance MUST NOT
   reject a domain solely because it selects another System ID length
   that the implementation supports. A profile that requires six octets
   MUST state that restriction as a profile requirement rather than an
   IS-IS base requirement.

7.  Information Bases and Metrics

7.1.  Protocol State

   A Level 1 Intermediate System maintains the Level 1 decision and
   update processes, receive and forwarding processes, a Level 1 link
   state database, an adjacency database, and a circuit database. It
   also keeps Level 1 shortest-path and forwarding information for every
   supported metric.

   A Level 2 Intermediate System MUST keep all Level 1 state required in
   its home area unless manualL2OnlyMode is "True" on every circuit. It
   also MUST keep a Level 2 decision process, update process, link state
   database, shortest-path information, and one forwarding database for
   each supported Level 2 metric.

   The adjacency database records one neighbor through one circuit at
   one applicable level. The circuit database records local link state.
   The link state database contains the newest accepted LSP information
   from known originators in the applicable flooding scope.

   An implementation selects the supported maximum numbers of systems in
   an area and neighbors on the local system. It sizes its databases for
   those capacities. The capacities bound the environment in which the
   implementation claims conformance. Management assigns circuit metrics
   and timers within the supported ranges.

7.2.  Decision Process Interface

   The Level 1 decision process MUST use the Level 1 link state database
   to calculate each Level 1 forwarding database. The Level 2 decision
   process MUST use the Level 2 link state database to calculate each
   Level 2 forwarding database. An update-process event that changes
   link state MUST make the applicable result eligible for
   recalculation.

   The decision process MUST produce one forwarding database for each
   supported pairing of routing level and metric. Each destination entry
   identifies the circuit and neighbor adjacency that can serve as its
   next hop. The detailed shortest-path algorithm is specified in
   Section 8.

   After a Level 1 calculation, a Level 2 Intermediate System MUST
   inform its Level 2 update process of the lowest System ID among Level
   2 Intermediate Systems reachable through real Level 1 links in the
   area. A virtual link through the Level 2 subdomain MUST NOT qualify
   for this selection.

   When the local system is the partition-designated Level 2
   Intermediate System for its Level 1 partition, its Level 2 decision
   process MUST report each other partition-designated system in the
   same area to the Level 1 update process. The report MUST include the
   other system's ID and its default-metric path value.

7.3.  Routing Metrics

   IS-IS defines four independent metrics. Management MUST assign a
   positive integer default metric to every circuit. Every Intermediate
   System MUST calculate routes with the default metric.

   The default metric can represent any chosen circuit objective. By
   convention it represents traffic capacity, with a larger value
   meaning less capacity. The decision process adds metric values along
   a path.

   The delay metric represents transit delay. The expense metric
   represents monetary expense. The error metric represents residual
   error probability. Each is OPTIONAL. When management assigns one of
   these metrics, it MUST use a positive integer, and a larger value
   MUST mean more delay, expense, or error probability respectively.

   A circuit that has no monetary expense still cannot use a zero
   expense metric. Management SHOULD use one for such a circuit. Zero
   would violate the positive-link requirement used by the base decision
   process.

   An implementation MAY support any combination of the three optional
   metrics. If it calculates routes for an optional metric, its update
   process MAY advertise that metric on an associated circuit. If it
   does not support that metric, the update process MUST NOT advertise
   it.

   When the decision process calculates an optional metric, it MUST use
   only LSP information that supplies a value for that metric. If none
   of the local circuits has a value for an optional metric, the
   Intermediate System MUST NOT calculate routes for that metric.

   A destination reachable with the default metric can therefore be
   unreachable with an optional metric. The forwarding process selects
   the applicable metric from the Quality of Service information in the
   data NPDU.

   Each advertised metric is internal or external. An internal metric
   describes a route inside the routing domain. An external metric
   describes a route to a destination outside the domain. The decision
   process MUST prefer an internal route to an external route regardless
   of their numeric totals. It MUST NOT compare the two types solely by
   numeric value.

7.4.  Broadcast Pseudonodes

   The decision process MUST model a broadcast subnetwork as one
   pseudonode with a link to every attached system. An attached
   Intermediate System MUST advertise only its link to the pseudonode,
   not a separate link to each other Intermediate System on the LAN.

   The Designated Intermediate System MUST originate the pseudonode
   LSPs. Each pseudonode LSP MUST list all systems that the designated
   system has confirmed can communicate on the LAN. It MUST use zero for
   every supported metric on each pseudonode-to-system link because the
   system-to-pseudonode link already contributes the circuit metric.

   The pseudonode identifier consists of the Designated Intermediate
   System's source ID followed by a nonzero pseudonode ID. The
   Designated Intermediate System MUST assign a pseudonode ID that is
   locally unique among its pseudonodes. It MUST NOT assign zero.

   A broadcast circuit elects the Level 1 and Level 2 Designated
   Intermediate Systems independently. The Level 1 election controls the
   Level 1 pseudonode and LSPs. The Level 2 election controls the Level
   2 pseudonode and LSPs.

   When a Designated Intermediate System resigns because it or its SNPA
   is stopping, or because a higher-priority system takes the role, it
   MUST purge its pseudonode LSPs at that level throughout the flooding
   scope. It initiates the purge by setting Remaining Lifetime to zero.
   A system that resigns at both levels MUST purge both sets.

   When a system becomes the Designated Intermediate System and holds an
   LSP at that level from the prior designated system for the circuit,
   it MUST initiate a network-wide purge of every such old pseudonode
   LSP. It MUST then originate state under its own pseudonode
   identifier.

7.5.  Usable Links

   Two Intermediate Systems qualify as neighbors only when each reports
   the other as directly reachable through an SNPA. On a
   connection-oriented subnetwork, each endpoint MUST confirm the
   neighbor relationship after the connection is established and Hello
   PDUs have been exchanged.

   The decision process MUST use an Intermediate-System link only when
   the LSPs from both endpoints report that link as up. If either report
   is absent, it MUST exclude the link from route calculation. The two
   endpoints can advertise different nonzero metrics, which permits
   asymmetric routes.

   An Intermediate System that considers a link down MUST omit that link
   from its LSPs. It MUST NOT advertise a stale up state. A receiver
   that sees a one-sided link MUST retain the LSP according to update
   rules but MUST NOT use that link in the decision process.

   On a broadcast subnetwork, the Designated Intermediate System MUST
   determine the set of Intermediate Systems that can all communicate on
   the LAN. Its pseudonode LSP MUST include exactly that set. It MUST
   omit a system that does not satisfy this mutual-connectivity
   condition.

7.6.  Multiple LSPs from One Originator

   The update process can divide one originator's logical link state
   across several LSPs. Each fragment has the same source ID and a
   distinct LSP Number. The decision process treats fragment zero as the
   controlling fragment.

   If a live fragment zero is absent for an originator, the decision
   process MUST ignore every nonzero fragment from that originator. A
   fragment is live for this rule only when its Remaining Lifetime is
   greater than zero. Stored nonzero fragments MAY remain in the link
   state database while they are excluded from route calculation.

   The decision process MUST take the Database Overload bit, IS Type,
   Area Addresses information, and Attached Flag only from fragment
   zero. If another fragment carries any of those values, the decision
   process MUST ignore those copies. It MUST NOT combine or override the
   fragment-zero value with a value from another fragment.

8.  Decision Process

8.1.  Inputs and Calculation Instances

   The Decision Process calculates next hops from the local link-state
   database.  A Level 1 IS MUST run a separate calculation for each
   supported metric.  A Level 2 IS MUST also run the corresponding Level
   2 calculations.  The four metric instances are default, delay,
   expense, and error.  Every IS MUST support the default metric.  An IS
   MAY support any optional metric.

   An IS MUST run an optional metric instance only when that metric is
   assigned to at least one local circuit.  In that instance, the IS
   MUST ignore every advertised edge that omits the metric.  A missing
   optional metric makes that edge unavailable for that instance.  It
   MUST NOT make the edge unavailable to another metric instance.

   The Decision and Update Processes MUST synchronize access to the
   link-state database.  An implementation MAY queue arriving LSPs
   during a calculation, use a protected database copy, or use finer
   synchronization.  With finer synchronization, an LSP that arrives
   before its originator enters TENT MAY be used in the current
   calculation.  An update received after that originator is completely
   processed MUST be recorded for a later calculation.  An update
   received between those points MUST be buffered or handled by an
   equivalent corrective action.

   An execution in progress MUST NOT be abandoned because updates
   arrive.  It MUST finish before a rerun caused by those updates.
   Intervening changes MUST cause another execution after the current
   one completes.  The IS MUST install only a complete, consistent
   result.
   It MUST NOT combine Level 1 and Level 2 state, combine metric
   instances, or install a partial calculation.

   For an originator, fragment zero qualifies the complete LSP set.  If
   fragment zero is absent or has zero Remaining Lifetime, the Decision
   Process MUST ignore every fragment from that originator.  If fragment
   zero qualifies, the process MAY read topology advertisements from all
   current fragments for that originator.  It MUST read the overload
   bit, IS type, Area Addresses, and Attached bits only from fragment
   zero.  A value for one of those fields in another fragment MUST be
   ignored.

8.2.  SPF Graph Construction

   Each IS and each LAN pseudonode is a graph vertex.  A Level 1 End
   System is a leaf vertex.  In a Level 2 graph, an area address or a
   reachable address prefix is a leaf vertex.  A leaf MUST NOT be used
   as a transit vertex.

   A point-to-point advertisement creates a directed edge from the LSP
   originator to the advertised neighbor.  Its cost is the advertised
   value for the calculation's metric.  The two directions can have
   different costs.

   A broadcast circuit is represented by one pseudonode per level.  An
   attached IS advertises an edge to that pseudonode with the circuit
   cost.  The pseudonode advertises an edge to each attached system with
   cost zero.  An IS MUST NOT replace this representation with a full
   mesh whose costs change the resulting path sums.

   Except for a pseudonode's zero-cost edges, every circuit metric used
   by SPF MUST be a positive integer.  The process MUST discard an edge
   with a missing, zero, out-of-range, or otherwise unusable metric.  A
   path whose accumulated metric exceeds MaxPathMetric is illegal and
   MUST NOT enter TENT, PATHS, or a forwarding database.

   The process MUST preload TENT from local Up adjacencies on enabled
   circuits.  This includes applicable manual adjacencies and enabled
   Level 2 reachable addresses.  The initial distance is the parent
   circuit's value for the current metric.  The first-hop set contains
   the local adjacency.

   If two local adjacencies produce the same vertex, the process MUST
   keep the lower distance.  For equal distances, it MUST union their
   first-hop sets and apply Section 8.5.  It MUST ignore the
   higher-distance entry.

   On an enabled broadcast circuit, the process MUST also examine the
   qualified pseudonode LSP identified by the local circuit ID.  For
   each system reported by that pseudonode which has no direct local
   TENT entry, it MUST add a TENT entry at the local circuit cost.  The
   first-hop set for that entry is the adjacency to the Designated IS.
   If the pseudonode's fragment zero is absent or expired, this preload
   MUST NOT occur.

   Internal and external metric values are different cost classes.  An
   implementation MAY store a cost as the pair (external_sum,
   internal_sum).  It MUST compare external_sum first and internal_sum
   second.  Thus every all-internal route precedes every route that
   contains an external metric, regardless of the numeric internal sum.
   Addition MUST detect overflow and MUST reject an unrepresentable path
   instead of wrapping its cost.

8.3.  Reciprocal-Link and Overload Checks

   Before SPF uses an edge between two IS vertices, both endpoints MUST
   report that link.  For a pseudonode edge, the IS MUST report the
   pseudonode and the pseudonode MUST report the IS.  The check concerns
   the presence of both directions.  Their metric values need not be
   equal.  The process MUST ignore a one-way IS edge.  This reciprocal
   check does not apply to a leaf vertex.

   An overloaded IS remains reachable as a destination.  When SPF
   removes an overloaded IS from TENT, the process MUST retain its path
   in PATHS.  It MUST examine only leaves advertised by that IS.  It
   MUST NOT relax an edge from that IS to another IS or pseudonode.
   The overload indication used for this rule MUST come from the
   qualified fragment zero.

   The Level 1 and Level 2 overload states are independent.  If the
   local Decision Process lacks resources to complete one level, the IS
   MUST discard that calculation, retain the last complete forwarding
   database for that level, and enter Waiting state for that level.  The
   IS MUST set and flood the overload bit in its fragment-zero LSP and
   start waitingTime for that level.  It MUST continue the Decision and
   Forwarding Processes from the information it retained.

   While in Waiting state, an LSP that cannot be stored MUST be ignored
   and MUST restart the waitingTime interval.  The IS MUST remain in
   Waiting state until resources are available and waitingTime has
   elapsed since the last ignored LSP.  It MUST then report recovery,
   clear and reissue the fragment-zero overload indication, set that
   level's state to On, and run a complete calculation.  It MUST NOT
   clear overload early merely because one calculation succeeds.

8.4.  TENT and PATHS Processing

   PATHS contains final triples (vertex, distance, first_hops).  TENT
   contains triples with the same form whose distances are tentative.
   first_hops is a set of local Up adjacencies.  The process MUST remove
   duplicate adjacencies from every such set.

   The following bounded procedure is a reference SPF algorithm.  Any
   other SPF implementation MAY be used when it meets the static and
   dynamic conformance requirements and produces the same conforming
   route results.

      PATHS := { (SELF, 0, LOCAL_DELIVERY) }
      TENT  := preload_local_adjacencies()

      while TENT is not empty:
          P := entry with the least distance
          if several entries have that distance:
              choose a pseudonode before a non-pseudonode
              otherwise choose any entry in that vertex class
          remove P from TENT
          add P to PATHS

          if P is a leaf:
              continue
          if P has no qualified fragment zero:
              continue

          for each eligible advertised edge P -> N:
              if P is overloaded and N is not a leaf:
                  continue
              if N is either an IS or a pseudonode and
                  N does not report P:
                  continue

              candidate := distance(P) + metric(P, N)
              if candidate exceeds MaxPathMetric:
                  continue
              if N is in PATHS:
                  continue

              hops := first_hops(P)
              if N is in TENT with a greater distance:
                  replace N's distance and first_hops with
                      candidate and hops
              else if N is in TENT with the same distance:
                  union hops into N's first_hops
                  prune N's first_hops as specified in Section 8.5
              else if N is absent from TENT:
                  add (N, candidate, hops) to TENT

   The preload operation supplies first_hops when SELF is the
   predecessor.  Every later relaxation inherits the predecessor's
   first-hop set.  SPF MUST process a pseudonode before a non-pseudonode
   at the same distance.  This ordering lets all zero-cost pseudonode
   alternatives join the first-hop set before the non-pseudonode becomes
   final.

   When TENT becomes empty, PATHS is complete.  For each reachable leaf
   or system, the forwarding entry MUST contain PATHS.first_hops after
   excess paths have been removed.  A destination absent from PATHS MUST
   be recorded as unreachable or omitted from the forwarding database.
   It MUST NOT retain next hops from an older calculation.

   An implementation MAY support downstream paths.  If it does, it MUST
   declare that capability and MUST use the same qualification and
   metric rules for every root in one complete calculation.  For each
   local neighbor A, it MUST run the same calculation rooted at A.  A is
   a legal downstream next hop for D only when distance_A(D) is less
   than distance_SELF(D), and the complete path through A does not
   exceed MaxPathMetric.  The IS MUST remove excess downstream paths by
   Section 8.5.  Without this optional
   capability, the IS MUST install only minimum-cost next hops.

8.5.  Deterministic Removal of Excess Paths

   Whenever a destination has more than maximumPathSplits legal next
   hops, the IS MUST sort them by the following keys, in this exact
   order, and retain the first maximumPathSplits entries:

      1.  Adjacency type.  An End System or Level 2 reachable-address
          adjacency sorts before every other adjacency.

      2.  Total path metric.  A lower total sorts first.

      3.  Neighbor ID.  A lower unsigned binary value sorts first.

      4.  Circuit ID.  A lower value sorts first.  This is
          ptPtCircuitID on a non-broadcast circuit, l1CircuitID on a
          Level 1 broadcast circuit, and l2CircuitID on a Level 2
          broadcast circuit.

      5.  LAN address.  A lower unsigned binary value sorts first.

   The IS MUST apply this ordering whenever equal candidates are joined,
   when a forwarding entry is built, and when downstream paths are used.
   Two entries equal on all five keys identify the same adjacency and
   MUST be deduplicated.  The IS MUST NOT use insertion order, arrival
   time, or hash iteration order as another key.

8.6.  Attached Level 2 Selection

   For each metric, a Level 1 IS MUST form the set of reachable Level 2
   ISs whose Attached bit for that metric is set.  It MUST select every
   member at the minimum cost and install their first hops as the
   nearest-Level-2 entry.  If that entry has too many first hops, the IS
   MUST prune them by Section 8.5.  If the set is empty, the IS MUST
   mark the nearest-Level-2 entry unreachable.

   After each Level 2 calculation, a Level 2 IS MUST determine its
   Attached state, represented by the ATT bit, separately for each
   metric.  It is attached for metric k when it can reach at least one
   other area using k, or when it has an enabled reachable address
   prefix whose metric k is defined.  It is unattached otherwise.

   On a True-to-False transition, the Level 2 IS MUST clear the Attached
   state for metric k, regenerate its Level 1 fragment-zero LSP, and
   calculate the nearest-Level-2 entry as a Level 1 IS would.  On a
   False-to-True transition, it MUST set the Attached state, regenerate
   its Level 1 fragment-zero LSP, and set the nearest-Level-2 entry for
   k to SELF.  An unchanged state MUST NOT by itself cause an LSP
   regeneration.

   A Level 2 IS that is unattached for a destination outside its area
   MUST use its reachable nearest-Level-2 entry.  If no attached Level 2
   IS is reachable through Level 1 routing, it MUST treat the
   destination as unreachable.

8.7.  Partition-Repair Election and Calculation Order

   Partition repair is optional.  An IS that does not implement it MUST
   set partitionAreaAddresses equal to areaAddresses and MUST NOT
   advertise repair support, create a virtual adjacency, or decapsulate
   a PDU addressed to a virtual entity that it does not own.  Every
   Level 2 IS, including one without repair support, MUST still forward
   an outer data NPDU for a reachable virtual NET as specified in
   Section 8.9.

   A repair-capable Level 2 IS MUST perform a preliminary Level 1
   default SPF that excludes every edge whose Virtual flag is True.  It
   MUST run this calculation after the ordinary Level 1 database is
   available and before the Level 2 SPF used for repair.  The result
   defines the local partition and the candidates for its election.

   A candidate MUST meet all of these conditions:

      1.  Its qualified Level 1 fragment zero reports Level 2 IS type.

      2.  Its default-metric Attached bit is set.

      3.  It advertises support for partition repair.

      4.  It operates as a Level 1 IS in this area.

      5.  The preliminary SPF reaches it without a virtual edge.

   The candidate with the lowest System ID is the Partition Designated
   Level 2 IS.  Every repair-capable Level 2 IS in the partition MUST
   derive the same result and MUST report the elected ID in its Level 2
   LSP.  If no candidate exists, the IS MUST report no elected ID and
   MUST NOT create repair state for that partition.

   A repair-capable Level 2 IS MUST use this bounded calculation order:

      preliminary L1 default SPF without virtual edges
      compute partitionAreaAddresses and elect the partition IS
      originate changed election information when needed
      run Level 2 SPF
      if SELF is elected, synchronize virtual adjacencies
      after a virtual-adjacency change, rerun affected Level 1 SPF

   A repair-capable Level 2 IS MUST NOT use a virtual edge to elect the
   system that creates that edge.  A base virtual adjacency has only the
   default metric.  The base repair procedure MUST NOT make it eligible
   in an optional-metric SPF.

8.8.  Partition Detection and Virtual Adjacencies

   Only the elected Partition Designated Level 2 IS performs repair for
   its local partition.  After Level 2 SPF, it MUST examine every
   qualified Level 2 LSP.  A remote partition is present when an LSP has
   an Area Address that matches any local partitionAreaAddresses and
   reports an elected Partition Designated Level 2 IS other than SELF.
   The local IS MUST continue the scan until it has found all such
   elected systems.  Duplicate reports of one elected ID identify one
   remote partition endpoint.

   The elected local IS MUST create its virtual NET from the first Area
   Address in its own Level 2 LSP, its System ID, and the
   IntradomainRouteingSelector.  For each reachable remote elected IS,
   it MUST create or update one Virtual Adjacency.  The Identifier is
   the remote virtual NET, formed from the remote LSP's first Area
   Address, its elected System ID, and the same selector.  If either
   first Area Address is absent, or Level 2 SPF has no default-metric
   path to the remote elected IS, the local IS MUST NOT create that
   adjacency.

   The Virtual Adjacency metric MUST equal the Level 2 default-metric
   distance to the remote elected IS.  If that distance exceeds
   MaxLinkMetric, the advertised virtual-link metric MUST be
   MaxLinkMetric.  The local IS MUST advertise the remote elected System
   ID in its Level 1 LSP as an IS neighbor with the Virtual flag set to
   True.  It MUST also give the Level 1 Update Process every remote
   elected ID and default cost so Level 1 LSPs can be carried between
   all partitions through the Level 2 subdomain.

   After each complete scan, the elected local IS MUST compare the found
   set with its existing Virtual Adjacencies.  It MUST delete each entry
   whose remote elected ID was not found.  It MUST remove the associated
   virtual-entity state when no adjacency uses it.  Each creation or
   deletion MUST generate a partitionVirtualLinkChange event and MUST
   cause the affected Level 1 LSP and SPF results to be regenerated.  An
   IS that is no longer elected MUST delete all repair adjacencies it
   owned and generate the same event for each deletion.

   An area is detected as partitioned when Level 2 LSPs for that area
   report two or more distinct elected Partition Designated Level 2 ISs.
   It is detected as whole when they report one.  Loss of Level 2
   connectivity does not authorize a Level 1 repair path.  An
   unreachable remote elected IS MUST have no usable Virtual Adjacency.

8.9.  Virtual-Link Encapsulation and Level 2 Transit

   An elected IS sending any NPDU over a Virtual Adjacency MUST place
   the complete inner NPDU in an ISO 8473 Data NPDU.  The outer source
   MUST be the local virtual NET and the outer destination MUST be the
   remote virtual NET.  Both selectors MUST equal
   IntradomainRouteingSelector.

   When the inner PDU is an ISO 8473 Data or Error NPDU, the outer
   header MUST select the default metric.  It MAY express that selection
   with the defined QoS value or by omitting QoS.  The sender MUST copy
   the Segmentation Permitted flag, Error Report flag, and Lifetime from
   the inner NPDU.  On decapsulation, the receiver MUST replace the
   inner Lifetime with the received outer Lifetime.

   The sender MUST NOT segment an inner Data NPDU before encapsulation
   unless its total length exceeds 65512 octets.  If it exceeds that
   bound, the sender MUST segment it first and encapsulate each
   resulting NPDU.  ISO 8473 MAY segment an outer NPDU for transit.  The
   destination elected IS MUST reassemble the outer NPDU before
   decapsulation.

   When the inner PDU is an LSP or SNP, the sender MUST set outer
   Segmentation Permitted to True, Error Report to False, and Lifetime
   to 255.  On decapsulation of an LSP, the receiver MUST decrease the
   inner Remaining Lifetime by one half of the difference between 255
   and outer_lifetime, with a lower bound of zero.  The base protocol
   does not specify rounding when that difference is odd.

   A receiver MUST discard an outer PDU that is malformed or cannot be
   reassembled.  It MUST NOT process a partial inner PDU.  Only the IS
   that owns the destination virtual NET may decapsulate the wrapper.

   Every Level 2 IS MUST build forwarding entries for reported virtual
   NETs, whether that IS implements repair or acts only as transit.  For
   each qualified Level 2 LSP that reports a Partition Designated Level
   2 IS, the transit IS MUST form the virtual NET from that LSP's first
   Area Address, reported elected ID, and IntradomainRouteingSelector.
   It MUST map that NET to the Level 2 next hops for the elected IS.
   It MUST ignore the report if its first Area Address, elected ID, or
   route is absent.

   When several virtual-NET entries match an outer destination, the
   Level 2 IS MUST use the longest address-prefix match.  Equal best
   entries MUST use the next hops selected by the default-metric Level 2
   SPF and pruned by Section 8.5.  A transit IS MUST forward the outer
   NPDU as ordinary Level 2 traffic.  Only the elected IS that owns the
   destination virtual NET decapsulates it.

8.10.  Area Address Computation

   After Level 1 SPF, every IS that operates at Level 1 MUST compute
   areaAddresses as the union of manualAreaAddresses from the qualified
   fragment-zero LSP of every IS reachable through Level 1 routing.  The
   set includes SELF.  It includes systems reached through virtual and
   non-virtual links.  The computation MAY be deferred until the next
   Decision Process run, but the IS MUST use one complete SPF result.

   If the union contains more than maximumAreaAddresses values, the IS
   MUST sort the encoded Area Addresses as follows.  When one address is
   a prefix of another, the shorter address sorts first.  Otherwise, the
   IS MUST pad the shorter address with trailing zero octets and compare
   both as unsigned integers, with the first octet most significant.  It
   MUST retain the lowest maximumAreaAddresses values.  If this removes
   one of SELF's manualAreaAddresses, the IS MUST generate the
   manualAddressDroppedFromArea event.  An address from an unqualified
   or unreachable origin MUST NOT enter the union.

   A repair-capable Level 2 IS MUST compute partitionAreaAddresses from
   the same kind of union over the preliminary SPF that excludes virtual
   links.  It MUST apply the same bound, ordering, and local-address
   event rule.  An IS without repair support MUST use areaAddresses
   unchanged as partitionAreaAddresses.

8.11.  Route Preference and QoS Fallback

   The rules below select a route within every forwarding database that
   Section 13.1 permits for the NPDU's QoS format.  They MUST NOT cause
   a default-metric fallback that Section 13.1 disallows.  A strong
   globally unique selection therefore uses only its selected database,
   while a weak globally unique selection can use the default database
   under the conditions in Section 13.1.

   A Level 1 IS whose destination Area Address is local MUST use Level 1
   internal routes exclusively.  It MUST select the least cost in the
   chosen database and MAY split over the retained equal-cost next
   hops.  It MUST NOT use an external metric for an intra-area route.

   A Level 1-only IS whose destination Area Address is not local MUST
   use the nearest reachable attached Level 2 IS in the chosen
   database.  If no attached Level 2 IS is reachable under the
   applicable fallback rule, it MUST report the destination as
   unreachable.

   A Level 2 IS with a local-area destination MUST prefer a Level 2
   route over a Level 1 route only when the Level 1 route traverses a
   virtual link.  Otherwise, it MUST prefer the Level 1 route.  Within
   the chosen level, it MUST select the least-cost route in the chosen
   database.

   An attached Level 2 IS with a destination outside its area MUST
   apply these route classes in order:

      1.  A route to an area inside the routing domain whose Area
          Address matches the destination.  Among several matches, the
          longest Area Address match wins.

      2.  A reachable-address prefix advertised with an internal
          metric.  Among several matches, the longest prefix wins.

      3.  A reachable-address prefix advertised with an external
          metric.  Among several matches, the longest prefix wins.

   Within an equal route class and equal prefix length, the IS MUST
   prefer the least cost in the chosen database.  It MAY split traffic
   over the equal-cost next hops that remain after Section 8.5.  If no
   candidate remains after every selection permitted by the forwarding
   format, it MUST report the destination as unreachable and MUST NOT
   retain a less-preferred stale route.


9.  Update Process

9.1.  Responsibilities and Interfaces

   The update process maintains the link state database and floods link
   state information.  A Level 1 instance operates within one area.  A
   Level 2 instance operates within the Level 2 subdomain.

   The update process receives the adjacency database, active reachable
   addresses, management changes, and adjacency or circuit events.  It
   also receives LSPs and SNPs with the circuit on which each PDU
   arrived.  A Level 1 instance in a Level 2 IS receives information
   about other partitions from the Level 2 decision process.

   The update process produces the link state database.  It MUST notify
   the decision process when an LSP's variable portion changes or an LSP
   is purged.  A change only to the sequence number or Remaining
   Lifetime MUST NOT cause that notification when the variable portion
   is unchanged.

   An implementation MAY use a checksum comparison as an initial change
   test.  Equal checksums do not prove that the variable portions are
   equal.  In that case, the implementation MUST compare the variable
   portions octet by octet before it suppresses the notification.

9.2.  Origination Triggers and Managed Information

   An IS MUST originate one or more local LSPs when the periodic timer
   expires.  It MUST also originate the affected LSPs after an adjacency
   database change or a management change that changes advertised
   information.

   A managed End System adjacency is active only when all of these
   conditions hold:

   o  The parent linkage has operationalState Enabled.

   o  The adjacency has adjacencyState On.

   o  The parent is a broadcast circuit, or its data link is
      operational.

   When such an adjacency becomes active, the IS MUST add its system IDs
   to the local Level 1 LSP set.  When it becomes inactive, the IS MUST
   remove those IDs.  The IS MUST use internal metrics for a managed End
   System adjacency.  A pseudonode LSP MUST NOT advertise it.

   A managed reachable address is active only when all of these
   conditions hold:

   o  The parent linkage has operationalState Enabled.

   o  The reachable address has operationalState Enabled.

   o  The parent is a broadcast circuit, or its data link is
      operational.

   When such an address becomes active, a Level 2 IS MUST advertise its
   prefix and every configured metric.  When it becomes inactive, the IS
   MUST remove the prefix.  A reachable-address metric MAY be internal
   or external.

9.3.  LSP Fragmentation

   An originator MAY divide one node's information among several LSP
   fragments.  All fragments MUST use the same source ID and distinct
   LSP Numbers.  The update process MUST flood and age each fragment
   independently.  The decision process MUST associate the fragments by
   their common source ID.

   A Level 1 originator MUST NOT exceed originatingL1LSPBufferSize.  A
   Level 2 originator MUST NOT exceed originatingL2LSPBufferSize.

   Fragment zero has special meaning.  Only fragment zero supplies these
   values to the decision process:

   o  the LSP Database Overload bit

   o  the IS Type field

   o  the Area Addresses option

   o  the Attached flag

   The originator MUST place the Area Addresses option only in fragment
   zero.  If one option cannot contain all area addresses, each instance
   except the last MUST contain 12 addresses.

   When any special fragment-zero value changes, the originator MUST
   reissue fragment zero.  It need not reissue unchanged fragments.

   An originator SHOULD keep an adjacency in its assigned fragment.  It
   SHOULD keep the fragment count within approximately 10 percent of the
   densely packed minimum.  It SHOULD reuse free space in lower-numbered
   fragments for new adjacencies.

   If an originator moves an adjacency between fragments, it MUST set
   the SRM flags for both replacement fragments as one atomic action.
   If it cannot do so, it MUST defer the move.  This rule prevents a
   receiver from observing the removal before the corresponding
   addition.

   An event MUST cause the originator to reissue every changed fragment.
   It need not reissue an unchanged fragment.

   If a nonzero fragment loses all advertised information, the
   originator SHOULD purge it.  The originator MAY instead reissue an
   empty fragment. It SHOULD NOT let the old contents disappear only
   through aging.

9.4.  Periodic and Event-Driven Generation

   An IS MUST regenerate each local and locally controlled pseudonode
   LSP no less often than maximumLSPGenerationInterval.  It MUST apply
   the timer jitter specified for protocol timers.  The IS need not
   align the timers of separate fragments.

   After periodic generation, the IS MUST set the LSP's SRM flag on
   every circuit that has an adjacency at the LSP's level.  This
   requirement also applies to every virtual link eligible for Level 1
   flooding.

   The following events require regeneration when they change an LSP:

   o  an adjacency or circuit enters or leaves the Up state

   o  a circuit metric changes

   o  a reachable-address metric changes

   o  manualAreaAddresses changes

   o  systemID changes

   o  the IS gains or loses designated-IS status

   o  waiting status changes

   o  a virtual circuit is created or deleted

   o  AttachedFlag changes

   The originator MUST increment the sequence number of each changed
   existing fragment.  A newly required fragment MUST start at sequence
   number 1.  The originator MUST set the SRM flags on every eligible
   circuit after generation.

   Each fragment has its own minimumLSPGenerationInterval hold-down.
   The originator MUST wait for that interval before it regenerates the
   same fragment.  Event generation MUST NOT reset the
   maximumLSPGenerationInterval timer.

9.5.  Level 1 Non-Pseudonode LSPs

   A Level 1 local LSP set MUST advertise manualAreaAddresses in the
   Area Addresses option.

   The Intermediate System Neighbors options MUST contain these node
   IDs:

   o  For each Up ptToPt, staticIn, or staticOut adjacency to a Level 1
      IS, the neighborSystemID followed by a zero octet.

   o  For each such adjacency to a Level 2 IS whose adjacencyUsage is
      Level 1 or Level 1 and 2, the neighborSystemID followed by zero.

   o  For each broadcast circuit, the l1CircuitID of its pseudonode.

   o  For each virtual adjacency, the system ID from its NET followed by
      zero.  The entry MUST carry the Virtual flag.

   A physical neighbor or pseudonode entry MUST use the circuit's Level
   1 metric for every supported metric.  A virtual entry MUST use the
   total default-metric cost to the virtual NET.  Its other metrics MUST
   be encoded as unsupported.

   The End System Neighbors options MUST contain the local systemID with
   zero for every supported metric.  They MUST also contain every End
   System ID from an Up automatic adjacency on a ptToPt, staticIn, or
   staticOut circuit.  Each such entry MUST use the circuit's Level 1
   metrics.

   The End System Neighbors options MUST include every active managed
   End System adjacency.  Each entry MUST use the parent circuit's Level
   1 metrics.

   If areaTransmitPassword is non-null, the originator MUST include an
   Authentication Information field.  It MUST encode type Password and
   the value of areaTransmitPassword.

9.6.  Level 1 Pseudonode LSPs

   A Level 1 designated IS MUST originate one pseudonode LSP set for
   each circuit on which it is the Level 1 designated IS.  Every
   supported metric in this LSP set MUST be zero.

   A Level 1 pseudonode LSP MUST omit the Area Addresses option.  Its
   Intermediate System Neighbors options MUST include the designated
   IS's systemID followed by zero.

   Those options MUST also include each Up Level 1 IS adjacency on that
   circuit.  They MUST include an Up Level 2 IS adjacency on that
   circuit when its adjacencyUsage is Level 1.  Each neighborSystemID
   MUST have a trailing zero octet.

   The End System Neighbors options MUST include every End System ID
   from an Up automatic adjacency on that circuit.  They MUST omit
   managed End System adjacencies.

   If areaTransmitPassword is non-null, the originator MUST include an
   Authentication Information field.  It MUST encode type Password and
   the value of areaTransmitPassword.

9.7.  Level 2 Non-Pseudonode LSPs

   A Level 2 local LSP set MUST advertise partitionAreaAddresses in the
   Area Addresses option when partition repair is supported.  Otherwise,
   it MUST advertise areaAddresses.  It MUST include the Type 4
   Partition Designated Level 2 IS option only when repair is supported
   and the IS is attached.  The option identifies the partition's
   designated Level 2 IS.  It MUST omit Type 4 otherwise.

   The Intermediate System Neighbors options MUST contain these node
   IDs:

   o  For each Up ptToPt, staticIn, or staticOut adjacency to a Level 2
      IS, the neighborSystemID followed by a zero octet.

   o  For each broadcast circuit, the l2CircuitID of its pseudonode.

   Each entry MUST use the circuit's Level 2 value and metric type for
   every supported metric.

   The Prefix Neighbors options MUST include every active managed
   reachable-address prefix.  Each entry MUST carry that object's Level
   2 metrics and their internal or external types.

   If domainTransmitPassword is non-null, the originator MUST include an
   Authentication Information field.  It MUST encode type Password and
   the value of domainTransmitPassword.

9.8.  Level 2 Pseudonode LSPs

   A Level 2 designated IS MUST originate one pseudonode LSP set for
   each circuit on which it is the Level 2 designated IS.  Every
   supported metric in this LSP set MUST be zero.

   A Level 2 pseudonode LSP MUST omit the Area Addresses and Prefix
   Neighbors options.  Its Intermediate System Neighbors options MUST
   contain the designated IS's systemID followed by zero.  They MUST
   also contain each Up Level 2 IS neighborSystemID on that circuit
   followed by zero.

   If domainTransmitPassword is non-null, the originator MUST include an
   Authentication Information field.  It MUST encode type Password and
   the value of domainTransmitPassword.

9.9.  Checksum, Local Storage, and Stable Encoding

   The originator MUST compute the LSP checksum when it generates an
   LSP. Another IS MUST NOT modify that checksum.

   The checksum covers every field after Remaining Lifetime.  It
   excludes Remaining Lifetime and every earlier field so that transit
   systems can age the LSP without recalculation.

   The originator MUST initialize checksum accumulators C0 and C1 to the
   values obtained after processing the systemID part of its Source ID.
   It MUST then continue the calculation after the first ID Length
   octets of Source ID.  The originator MUST recalculate the initial
   values when systemID changes.

   After generation, the IS MUST replace its database copy with the new
   fragment.  For a Level 1 LSP, it MUST set SRM on each circuit with a
   Level 1 adjacency.  It MUST also set SRM on each circuit with a Level
   2 adjacency whose usage includes Level 1, and on every virtual link.

   For a Level 2 LSP, the IS MUST set SRM on each circuit with a Level 2
   adjacency.

   An IS MUST reserve enough resources to store and internalize its own
   non-pseudonode fragment zero.  If it cannot do so, it MUST enter the
   applicable database-overload state in Section 9.19.

   When an IS reissues an LSP with unchanged variable information, it
   MUST preserve the prior order of that information.  This requirement
   applies even when the sequence number changes.  It does not apply
   after any intervening change to the local topology data.

9.10.  Flooding State

   The Send Routing Message flag, called SRM in this section, records
   that an LSP must be sent on one circuit.  The Send Sequence Numbers
   flag, called SSN, records that the LSP must be listed in a PSNP on
   one circuit.

   An implementation MUST maintain SRM and SSN separately for every LSP
   and every non-DA circuit that exchanges routing PDUs.  It MUST NOT
   set either flag on a circuit whose externalDomain attribute is True.
   It MUST NOT set SRM for an entry whose sequence number is zero.

   On a broadcast circuit, the IS MUST clear SRM after it transmits the
   LSP.  On a non-broadcast circuit, it MUST retain SRM until an LSP or
   SNP confirms that the neighbor has the same or newer information.

   The IS MUST clear SSN after it transmits a PSNP containing that
   entry. A PSNP entry serves as the acknowledgment for an LSP.

   If an LSP is larger than a circuit's dataLinkBlocksize, the IS MUST
   NOT transmit it on that circuit.  The IS MUST raise
   lSPTooLargeToPropagate.  It MAY detect this when setting SRM and
   leave SRM clear.  It MAY instead detect this before transmission and
   clear SRM then.

   Level 2 flooding MUST use circuits with at least one Level 2
   adjacency. Level 1 flooding MUST use circuits with at least one Level
   1 adjacency, or a Level 2 adjacency whose use is not Level 2 only.
   It MUST also use eligible virtual links.

   A Level 1 LSP sent on a broadcast circuit MUST use AllL1ISs.  A Level
   2 LSP sent on a broadcast circuit MUST use AllL2ISs.

   A PDU larger than ReceiveLSPBufferSize MUST be handled as a bad
   checksum.  The receiver MUST discard it and raise
   corruptedLSPReceived.  An LSP with invalid syntax or a bad checksum
   MUST receive the same treatment.

   When a valid received LSP is newer, the receiver MUST store it and
   set SRM on every eligible circuit except the arrival circuit.  When
   it is older, the receiver MUST set SRM on the arrival circuit for the
   stored copy.  When it is equal, the receiver MUST acknowledge it when
   required and clear SRM on the arrival circuit.

   A received checksum value of zero denotes an expired LSP.  The
   receiver MUST set Remaining Lifetime to zero if needed and apply
   Section 9.16.

   A flooding scan MAY select an LSP only when lastSent is at least
   minimumLSPTransmissionInterval in the past.  After transmission, the
   IS MUST update lastSent.

9.11.  LSP Receive Processing

   An IS that receives an LSP on circuit C MUST first apply all
   acceptance tests in this subsection.  A discarded LSP MUST NOT change
   the database, SRM, or SSN unless a rule below says otherwise.

   The receiver MUST discard an LSP received on an externalDomain
   circuit. It MUST NOT raise an event for that condition.

   A Level 1 IS MUST discard a Level 2 LSP.  A Level 2 IS MUST discard a
   Level 1 LSP received on a manualL2OnlyMode circuit.  These conditions
   MUST NOT change the database or flags.

   If ID Length differs from routingDomainIDLength, the receiver MUST
   discard the LSP and raise iDFieldLengthMismatch.  It MUST leave the
   database and flags unchanged.

   For a Level 1 LSP, the receiver MUST compare Maximum Area Addresses
   with maximumAreaAddresses.  On a mismatch, it MUST discard the LSP,
   raise maximumAreaAddressesMismatch, and leave the database and flags
   unchanged.  An implementation that supports only the value 3 MAY omit
   this test.

   On a broadcast circuit, the receiver MUST find a same-level adjacency
   whose neighborSNPAAddress equals the source SNPA.  If none exists, it
   MUST discard the LSP without an event or state change.

   On a non-broadcast circuit, the receiver MUST have a same-level
   adjacency on C.  A Level 1 and 2 adjacency satisfies either level.
   If no suitable adjacency exists, the receiver MUST discard the LSP
   without an event or state change.

   If Level 1 password checking is configured, a Level 1 LSP without an
   Authentication Information field MUST be discarded.  The receiver
   MUST raise authenticationFailure and leave database and flags
   unchanged.

   If that field has a type other than Password, a receiver that does
   not implement the stated type MUST ignore the LSP and raise
   authenticationFailure.  Behavior for an implemented non-Password type
   is outside this specification.

   For type Password, the receiver MUST compare the received value with
   areaReceivePasswords plus areaTransmitPassword.  A match permits
   further processing.  On no match, it MUST ignore the LSP, raise
   authenticationFailure, and leave database and flags unchanged.

   The Level 2 password tests are identical except that they use
   domainReceivePasswords and domainTransmitPassword.

   If an LSP exceeds the local originating buffer size for its level,
   the receiver MUST raise originatingLSPBufferSizeMismatch.  If the PDU
   is no larger but carries a different originatingLSPBufferSize, the
   receiver MUST raise the same alarm.  In both cases, it MUST continue
   processing the LSP.

   After acceptance, a zero Remaining Lifetime MUST invoke Section 9.16.

   For a nonzero LSP whose source matches the local system except for
   its pseudonode octet, the receiver MUST determine whether it
   currently originates that LSP.  If it has no current local copy, it
   MUST initiate a domain-wide purge under Section 9.16.  It MUST do the
   same for an LSP left by an earlier local incarnation.

   If the source and LSP belong to the current local origination set,
   the receiver MUST apply the own-LSP rules in Section 9.15.

   For an LSP from another source, the receiver MUST apply this matrix:

   o  Newer, or no database entry: The IS MUST store the received LSP.
      It MUST set SRM on every circuit except C and clear SRM on C.  On
      a non-broadcast C, it MUST set SSN on C.  It MUST clear SSN for
      every other circuit of a different linkage.  Storage failure
      invokes the overload rule below.

   o  Equal: The sequence numbers and checksums match, and both
      Remaining Lifetimes are zero or both are nonzero.  The IS MUST
      retain the database copy and clear SRM on C.  On a non-broadcast
      C, it MUST set SSN on C.  It MUST send no immediate LSP response.

   o  Older: The IS MUST retain the database copy, set SRM on C, and
      clear SSN on C.  The resulting LSP transmission is the response.

   Before it stores a new LSP, an IS MUST reserve enough memory for the
   PDU and all update-process data derived from it.  If memory is
   unavailable, it MUST ignore the LSP, MUST NOT acknowledge it, and
   MUST enter Waiting state for that level.

   If a replacement has the same LSPID and is no longer than the stored
   LSP, removal of the old copy and storage of the replacement MUST be
   one atomic action.  The IS MUST make enough of the old allocation
   available for this replacement path.

9.12.  SNP Receive Processing

   An IS that receives a CSNP or PSNP on circuit C MUST first apply
   every acceptance test in this subsection.  A discarded SNP MUST NOT
   change the database, SRM, or SSN.

   The receiver MUST discard an SNP received on an externalDomain
   circuit. A Level 1 IS MUST discard a Level 2 SNP.  A Level 2 IS MUST
   discard a Level 1 SNP received on a manualL2OnlyMode circuit.

   On a broadcast circuit, only the designated IS for the SNP's level
   MAY accept a PSNP.  A different receiver MUST discard that PSNP.
   This rule does not restrict CSNP reception.

   If ID Length differs from routingDomainIDLength, the receiver MUST
   discard the SNP and raise iDFieldLengthMismatch.

   For a Level 1 SNP, the receiver MUST compare Maximum Area Addresses
   with maximumAreaAddresses.  On a mismatch, it MUST discard the SNP
   and raise maximumAreaAddressesMismatch.  An implementation that
   supports only the value 3 MAY omit this test.

   On a broadcast circuit, the source SNPA MUST match the
   neighborSNPAAddress of a same-level adjacency.  On a non-broadcast
   circuit, C MUST have a same-level adjacency.  If either test fails,
   the receiver MUST discard the SNP without an event.

   The receiver MUST apply the Level 1 or Level 2 authentication tests
   in Section 9.11 to the SNP.  A missing field, unsupported type, or
   password mismatch has the same discard and authenticationFailure
   behavior.

   For each accepted SNP entry, the receiver MUST compare its sequence
   number, Remaining Lifetime, and checksum under Sections 9.15 and
   9.16. It MUST then apply this matrix on C:

   o  Equal: On a non-broadcast C, the IS MUST clear SRM.  On a
      broadcast C, it MUST make no SRM change.  It MUST make no SSN
      change.

   o  Reported entry older than the database: The IS MUST clear SSN and
      set SRM.  The stored LSP is the response.

   o  Reported entry newer than the database: The IS MUST set SSN.  On a
      non-broadcast C, it MUST clear SRM.  The PSNP entry requests the
      newer LSP.

   o  No database entry, with nonzero sequence number, checksum, and
      Remaining Lifetime: The IS MUST create a placeholder with sequence
      number zero and set SSN on C.  It MUST NOT set SRM for that entry.

   o  No database entry and any of those three values is zero: The IS
      MUST NOT create a request placeholder.  It MUST NOT set SRM.  A
      zero-lifetime report carries no retrievable LSP body.

   After all entries, a CSNP receiver MUST examine the inclusive Start
   LSPID through End LSPID range.  For each unlisted database LSP in
   that range, it MUST set SRM on C unless the LSP has sequence number
   zero or Remaining Lifetime zero.  Those excluded entries MUST NOT be
   sent as a response.

9.13.  CSNP and PSNP Generation

   Every CompleteSNPInterval, a Level 1 designated IS MUST send a
   complete Level 1 CSNP set on each broadcast circuit where it is
   designated.  A Level 2 designated IS MUST do the same at Level 2.
   The designated IS MUST ignore SSN state when constructing these
   CSNPs.

   A complete CSNP set MUST cover every possible LSPID in contiguous,
   inclusive ranges.  The PDUs need not be sent in range order.  If the
   set has multiple PDUs on a broadcast circuit, the IS MUST normally
   separate them by at least minimumBroadcastLSPTransmissionInterval.

   The IS MAY send a burst of no more than 10 CSNPs at a shorter
   interval. During any one-second period, it MUST NOT send more than
   1000 / minimumBroadcastLSPTransmissionInterval such CSNPs, where the
   interval is expressed in milliseconds.

   An IS MUST NOT send periodic CSNPs on a point-to-point circuit.  It
   sends the initial CSNP set under Section 9.17.

   Every partialSNPInterval, with timer jitter, an eligible IS MUST
   inspect SSN state for each circuit.  A PSNP MUST be no larger than
   originatingL1LSPBufferSize or originatingL2LSPBufferSize for its
   level.

   On a broadcast circuit, a non-designated Level 1-capable IS MUST send
   a Level 1 PSNP when at least one Level 1 SSN flag is set.  A Level 2
   IS MUST send a Level 2 PSNP when it is not the Level 2 designated IS
   and at least one Level 2 SSN flag is set.  A manualL2OnlyMode IS MUST
   NOT send a Level 1 PSNP on that circuit.

   On a point-to-point circuit, an IS MUST send a PSNP for each
   supported level when at least one SSN flag at that level is set.

   A PSNP MUST contain as many flagged entries as fit.  After
   transmission, the IS MUST clear SSN for every included entry.  Each
   scan MUST resume after the first entry omitted by the previous scan.
   This rule prevents lower LSPIDs from starving higher LSPIDs.  If no
   entry is flagged, the IS MUST NOT send an empty PSNP.

   A Level 1 CSNP or PSNP MUST include type Password and
   areaTransmitPassword when that value is non-null.  A Level 2 CSNP or
   PSNP MUST similarly use domainTransmitPassword.

9.14.  LSP Transmission Scheduling

   Every minimumLSPTransmissionInterval, with timer jitter, an IS MUST
   send every SRM-marked LSP on each point-to-point circuit.  This
   includes a non-DA dynamically established circuit and a virtual link.
   The IS MUST NOT clear SRM after these transmissions.

   For each LSP, two consecutive transmissions MUST be at least
   minimumLSPTransmissionInterval apart.  An implementation without one
   timer per LSP MUST still keep the actual interval between that value
   and twice that value.

   On a broadcast circuit, an IS MUST scan eligible SRM state every
   minimumBroadcastLSPTransmissionInterval, with timer jitter.  It MUST
   choose one marked LSP at random, multicast it, and clear SRM for that
   circuit.

   The IS MAY transmit no more than 10 LSPs at shorter spacing.  During
   any one-second period, it MUST NOT send more than 1000 /
   minimumBroadcastLSPTransmissionInterval such LSPs, where the interval
   is expressed in milliseconds.

   Queued received LSPs awaiting processing MUST inhibit LSP
   transmission on the same circuit.  The sender MAY still transmit at a
   minimum rate of one LSP per second while that queue remains nonempty.

9.15.  Sequence Ordering, Own-LSP Conflicts, and Confusion

   An LSP sequence number is an unsigned 4-octet integer.
   SequenceModulus is 2^32.  A real originated LSP MUST use a value from
   1 through 2^32 - 1.  Sequence number zero is reserved for a request
   placeholder.

   At initialization, an originator MUST use sequence number 1 for each
   LSP.  It MUST maintain an independent sequence series for every LSP
   Number.  Separate fragments need not have equal sequence numbers.

   Except for the lifetime and confusion rules below, the larger
   sequence number identifies the newer LSP.  Equal sequence numbers and
   equal checksums identify equal information only when both lifetimes
   are zero or both are nonzero.

   If equal sequence numbers have different checksums, the receiver MUST
   declare LSP confusion.  It MUST NOT order the copies by checksum.
   For an LSP from another originator, it MUST select one copy, set its
   Remaining Lifetime to zero, store the purge, and flood it.  It MUST
   NOT use either conflicting body for routing.

   If the confused LSP belongs to the current local origination set, the
   originator MUST choose a sequence number greater than the received
   value and regenerate the local LSP.  It MUST set SRM on every
   eligible circuit.

   When an IS receives a current local LSP with a greater sequence
   number, it MUST originate the next sequence number.  It MUST do the
   same when sequence numbers match but checksums differ.  In either
   case, it MUST regenerate the body from local state and set SRM on
   every eligible circuit.

   When a received current local LSP is older, the IS MUST retain its
   local copy and set SRM on C.  When it is equal with the same checksum
   and lifetime class, the IS MUST clear SRM on C.  On a non-broadcast
   C, it MUST set SSN so that the returned copy is acknowledged.

   If an increment would exceed 2^32 - 1, the IS MUST raise
   attemptToExceedMaximumSequenceNumber.  It MUST disable its IS network
   entity, including LSP origination, for at least
   MaxAge + ZeroAgeLifetime.  After re-enablement, it MUST restart each
   local sequence series at 1.

   A received nonzero-lifetime LSP whose local system ID matches but
   which is absent from the current local origination set is stale local
   state. The IS MUST originate and flood a purge for that LSPID.  This
   includes a pseudonode LSP from an earlier designated-IS role or
   system incarnation.

9.16.  Remaining Lifetime and Purging

   An originator MUST set Remaining Lifetime to MaxAge.  An IS that
   holds an LSP before transmission MUST reduce the transmitted lifetime
   by the holding time.

   Before each transmission, the sender MUST reduce Remaining Lifetime
   by at least one second.  It MUST reduce it by more than one second
   when it estimates transit to the neighbor will exceed one second.

   A Remaining Lifetime greater than MaxAge is invalid.  The receiver
   MUST treat that LSP as a checksum error, discard it, and raise
   corruptedLSPReceived.

   A checksum of zero identifies a purge.  The receiver MUST treat the
   LSP as though Remaining Lifetime were zero and overwrite a nonzero
   lifetime with zero before further processing.

   At equal sequence numbers, a zero-lifetime database copy is newer
   than a received nonzero-lifetime copy.  Otherwise, after confusion
   handling, the larger sequence number is newer.

   When a stored lifetime naturally reaches zero, the IS MUST set SRM
   for that LSP on every eligible circuit.  It MUST discard the LSP
   body, retain only its header, and record when zero was reached.  It
   MUST retain that header for ZeroAgeLifetime, then remove it from the
   database.

   When an IS initiates a purge while the LSP still has nonzero
   Remaining Lifetime, it MUST retain the purge header for MaxAge.

   For a received zero-lifetime LSP from source S on circuit C, the IS
   MUST give a current unexpired local LSP priority.  If S belongs to
   the local current origination set, the IS MUST NOT overwrite its
   local copy.  It MUST increment the local sequence number, regenerate
   the LSP, and set SRM on every eligible circuit.

   Otherwise, if no LSP from S exists in the database, the IS MUST
   acknowledge the purge on C.  It MUST remove the received header after
   it sends the acknowledgment and MUST NOT flood or retain it.

   Otherwise, the receiver MUST apply this purge matrix:

   o  Newer purge: The received sequence number is larger, or it is
      equal and the stored lifetime is nonzero.  The IS MUST replace the
      stored LSP with the purge.  It MUST set SRM on every circuit
      except C and clear SRM on C.  On a non-broadcast C, it MUST set
      SSN on C.  It MUST clear SSN on every other circuit of a different
      linkage.

   o  Equal purge: The sequence numbers match and both lifetimes are
      zero. The IS MUST retain the database header and clear SRM on C.
      On a non-broadcast C, it MUST set SSN on C.

   o  Older purge: The received sequence number is smaller.  The IS MUST
      retain the database LSP, set SRM on C, and clear SSN on C.  The
      stored newer LSP is the response.

9.17.  Reliable Database Synchronization

   On a point-to-point circuit, a receiver MUST acknowledge every newer
   or equal LSP.  The acknowledgment MUST be a PSNP entry containing the
   source ID, level, sequence number, Remaining Lifetime, and checksum.
   The receiver MUST answer an older LSP by sending its newer database
   copy instead.

   On a broadcast circuit, the designated IS MUST periodically
   multicast complete CSNP sets.  A Level 1 set uses AllL1ISs.  A Level
   2 set uses AllL2ISs.  The originating buffer size for the level
   limits each SNP.

   Every CSNP comparison and the resulting SRM or SSN change MUST follow
   the matrix and range-omission rule in Section 9.12.  Responses use
   the normal LSP and PSNP transmission schedules.

   When a point-to-point circuit, non-DA dynamically established
   circuit, or virtual link starts or restarts, each IS MUST set SRM on
   that circuit for every LSP.  It MUST also send a complete CSNP set
   for each supported level on that circuit.  This initialization is the
   only time an IS sends a CSNP on a point-to-point circuit.

9.18.  Database Validation

   An IS MUST use fail-stop behavior after it detects corrupted routing
   information.  It MUST disable the IS network entity until the failure
   is corrected unless an implementation-specific method provides the
   same protection.

   At least once per maximumLSPGenerationInterval, the IS MUST verify
   the checksum of every database LSP whose Remaining Lifetime is
   nonzero.  It MUST apply timer jitter before the next validation
   period.

   If any checksum fails, the IS MUST record corruptedLSPDetected.  At a
   minimum, it MUST delete the complete link state database and cause
   the database to be learned again.  A point-to-point recovery MUST
   include transmission of at least a complete CSNP set.

   After every validation pass, the IS MUST notify the decision process
   even when no LSP body changed.  The decision process MUST then
   recompute the forwarding databases.

9.19.  LSP Database Overload and Waiting State

   An implementation MUST reserve separate resource shares for Level 1
   and Level 2 databases.  Either level can enter Waiting state without
   forcing the other level into that state.

   When the update process cannot store an LSP, it MUST ignore the LSP
   and MUST NOT acknowledge it.  It MUST set the applicable l1State or
   l2State to Waiting and start waitingTime.  It MUST set the Database
   Overload bit in its own fragment zero for that level and flood the
   replacement.

   On entry to Level 1 Waiting state, the IS MUST raise
   lSPL1DatabaseOverload.  On entry to Level 2 Waiting state, it MUST
   raise lSPL2DatabaseOverload.

   The decision process MAY discover a later resource shortage.  In that
   case, the IS MUST enter Waiting state during that decision run.  It
   MUST remain there until resources are available and waitingTime has
   passed since the update process last ignored an LSP.

   While a level is in Waiting state, another storage failure MUST
   restart waitingTime for that level.  The IS MUST continue its
   decision and forwarding processes with the available database.

   When the Level 1 timer expires without a later storage failure, the
   IS MUST raise lSPL1DatabaseOverload with recovered status.  It MUST
   clear the overload bit in Level 1 fragment zero, reissue that
   fragment, set l1State to On, and resume normal Level 1 operation.

   The Level 2 recovery procedure is identical.  The IS MUST raise
   lSPL2DatabaseOverload with recovered status, clear the Level 2
   overload bit, reissue Level 2 fragment zero, set l2State to On, and
   resume normal Level 2 operation.

9.20.  Shared Database and Resource Use

   The decision process uses only LSP bodies for route calculation.  The
   update process also uses Sequence Number, Remaining Lifetime, SRM,
   and SSN.  An implementation MAY store lifetime as a timestamp if it
   converts the value correctly for transmission and comparison.

   The update process MUST NOT change data that an active decision run
   is reading.  It MAY queue received LSPs while that run holds the
   database. If the queue fills, it MUST discard excess LSPs without
   acknowledgment.

   An implementation MAY instead maintain two database copies.  It MUST
   give one immutable copy to the decision process and apply updates to
   the other.  It MUST switch the roles atomically before the next
   decision run.

   A decision run MAY use a newly arrived LSP for a node that has not
   yet entered its tentative set.  An LSP that arrives after a node is
   final MUST cause another decision run after the current run finishes.

   If an LSP changes while its node is between tentative and final
   state, the implementation MUST buffer the change or correct the
   calculation. It MUST NOT abandon a decision run in progress, because
   repeated arrivals could otherwise prevent completion.

   Buffer management MUST prevent the update process from denying
   buffers to other users.  Link scheduling MUST prevent the update
   process from consuming all bandwidth.

   Routing traffic SHOULD NOT starve Hello traffic for more than
   one-half of the Hello timer.  It SHOULD NOT starve data traffic for
   more than 10 seconds.

9.21.  Update Timers and Constants

   MaxAge is 20 minutes.  It MUST exceed maximumLSPGenerationInterval.
   An LSP reaches expired state when its estimated age reaches MaxAge.

   ZeroAgeLifetime is 1 minute.  An IS MUST retain an expired LSP header
   for at least this interval after it floods the purge.

   maximumLSPGenerationInterval MUST be less than MaxAge.  The
   recommended value is 15 minutes.

   minimumLSPGenerationInterval is the minimum delay before one
   originator regenerates the same LSP.  The recommended value is 30
   seconds.

   minimumLSPTransmissionInterval is the minimum delay between
   transmissions of the same LSP by an IS.  It MUST NOT be greater than
   minimumLSPGenerationInterval.  The recommended value is 5 seconds.

   CompleteSNPInterval controls periodic complete CSNP sets on broadcast
   circuits.  The recommended value is 10 seconds.

   partialSNPInterval controls periodic PSNP processing.  It MUST be
   less than minimumLSPTransmissionInterval.  The recommended value is 2
   seconds.

   waitingTime controls recovery from Waiting state.  A storage failure
   MUST restart it.  Its configured value MUST apply independently to
   Level 1 and Level 2 overload recovery.

   minimumBroadcastLSPTransmissionInterval is expressed in milliseconds.
   It limits broadcast LSP and multi-PDU CSNP transmission as specified
   in Sections 9.13 and 9.14.

10.  Circuit and Adjacency Operation

10.1.  Circuit Classes and Routing Domain Boundaries

   The subnetwork-dependent functions present every nonbroadcast circuit
   to the subnetwork-independent functions as a general-topology
   circuit. A permanent point-to-point link and a statically established
   data link use the point-to-point procedures in this section.  Support
   for an ISO 8208 subnetwork is OPTIONAL.  Static and dynamically
   assigned (DA) ISO 8208 circuits are OPTIONAL circuit kinds.

   An IS on a circuit whose externalDomain attribute is true MUST NOT
   exchange IS-IS routing information on that circuit.  The IS MUST
   obtain reachability across that routing domain boundary from enabled
   Reachable Address managed objects.  When a data NPDU matches such a
   prefix, the IS MUST derive a destination SNPA by the mapping selected
   for that object.  Failure to derive or select an SNPA is a forwarding
   failure, and the IS MUST invoke the ISO 8473 discard procedure.

   An explicit mapping contains one or more configured SNPAs.  An
   extractIDI mapping takes the SNPA from an IDI encoded under ISO 8348.
   An extractDSP mapping appends the DSP bits selected by sNPAMask to
   the configured sNPAPrefix.  The IS MUST use the mapping bound to the
   longest matching Reachable Address prefix.

10.2.  Coordination with ISO 9542

   An IS on a point-to-point, static, or broadcast circuit MUST operate
   the applicable IS functions of ISO 9542.  It MUST use ESH and ISH
   information to maintain the neighbor NETs, NSAP addresses, and SNPAs
   in its adjacency database.  Receipt of an ISO 9542 PDU MUST NOT by
   itself classify another IS as Level 1 or Level 2.  Only an accepted
   IS-IS Hello (IIH) supplies that classification.

   ISO 9542 remains responsible for End System discovery.  IS-IS MUST
   report each resulting adjacency Up or Down transition to the
   subnetwork-independent functions.  An adjacency that is being removed
   MUST NOT be reused until those functions report that Down processing
   is complete.

10.3.  Point-to-Point Startup and ISH Processing

   When an internal point-to-point circuit is enabled, or its adjacency
   becomes Down, the IS MUST cause ISO 9542 to send an ISH immediately.
   It MUST continue sending ISHs at the ISO 9542 IS Configuration Timer
   interval until the adjacency becomes Up.  While the adjacency is Up,
   the IS SHOULD stop sending ISHs and SHOULD ignore received ISHs.

   On receipt of an ISH when no adjacency exists, the IS MUST create an
   Initializing adjacency with neighborSystemType Unknown.  If an Up
   adjacency names a different system ID, the IS MUST report the old
   adjacency Down, delete it, and create a new Initializing adjacency.

   If an Initializing adjacency is already classified as an IS, the IS
   MUST ignore another ISH.  Otherwise, it MUST send a point-to-point
   IIH, set neighborSystemType to IS with unknown level, and set the
   local Circuit Type as follows:

      Local mode                                  Circuit Type
      Level 1                                     Level 1 only
      Level 2, manualL2OnlyMode true              Level 2 only
      Level 2, manualL2OnlyMode false             Level 1 and Level 2

10.4.  Point-to-Point IIH Transmission

   An IS MUST send point-to-point IIHs only on circuits whose
   externalDomain attribute is false.  It MUST send an IIH upon receipt
   of an ISH and whenever iSISHelloTimer expires.  Each transmission
   MUST restart iSISHelloTimer.

   The Local Circuit ID MUST be assigned when the circuit is created and
   MUST be unique among the local IS's circuits.  The advertised Circuit
   Type MUST follow Section 10.3.  A non-null circuitTransmitPassword
   requires a Password Authentication Information field containing that
   password.

   Every point-to-point IIH MUST advertise the sender's complete
   manualAreaAddresses set in one or more Type 1 Area Addresses TLVs.

   The first IIH sent in response to an ISH MUST test the usable SNSDU
   size.  Let maxsize be the greatest of dataLinkBlocksize,
   originatingL1LSPBufferSize, and originatingL2LSPBufferSize.  The IS
   MUST pad the SNSDU to at least maxsize minus one octet.  If the link
   cannot carry it, the adjacency MUST remain below Up.

10.5.  Point-to-Point IIH Acceptance

   A receiver MUST apply these tests before changing an adjacency:

   1.  If externalDomain is true, it MUST discard the IIH.

   2.  If ID Length differs from routingDomainIDLength, it MUST discard
       the IIH and report iDFieldLengthMismatch.

   3.  If either the transmit password or receive-password set is
       non-null, an Authentication Information field is required.  Its
       absence requires discard and an authenticationFailure event.

   4.  For Password authentication, the value MUST match one member of
       circuitReceivePasswords.  A mismatch requires discard and an
       authenticationFailure event.

   5.  An implementation that does not support the received
       authentication type MUST discard the IIH and report
       authenticationFailure.  Processing by an implementation that
       supports another authentication type is outside this base
       specification.

   A receiver MUST perform no state transition for a discarded IIH.

10.6.  Point-to-Point Adjacency State Machine

   After acceptance, the IS MUST compare every advertised area address
   with manualAreaAddresses.  When an area is shared, Maximum Area
   Addresses MUST equal maximumAreaAddresses.  A mismatch requires
   discard and a maximumAreaAddressesMismatch event.  An implementation
   fixed at three area addresses MAY omit this comparison.

   The following tables define the required usage.  "Both" means Circuit
   Type Level 1 and Level 2.  "Reject" names the required event when the
   adjacency is not Up.  An Up invalid adjacency is driven Down with the
   same reason and then deleted.

      Local Level 1
      Shared area   Remote type       Result
      yes           Level 1           Level 1 usage
      yes           Level 2           Reject, Wrong System Type
      yes           Both              Level 1 usage
      no            any               Reject, Area Mismatch

      Local Level 2, manualL2OnlyMode false
      Shared area   Remote type       Result
      yes           Level 1           Level 1 usage
      yes           Level 2           Level 2-only usage
      yes           Both              Level 1-and-Level 2 usage
      no            Level 1           Reject, Area Mismatch
      no            Level 2           Level 2-only usage
      no            Both              Level 2-only usage

      Local Level 2, manualL2OnlyMode true
      Shared area   Remote type       Result
      yes           Level 1           Reject, Wrong System Type
      yes           Level 2           Level 2-only usage
      yes           Both              Level 2-only usage
      no            Level 1           Reject, Area Mismatch
      no            Level 2           Level 2-only usage
      no            Both              Level 2-only usage

   The current-state transition is deterministic:

      Current state       Computed result             Action
      not Up              valid usage                set Up and usage
      Up                  same valid usage           accept
      Up                  different valid usage      Down, Wrong System
      any                 Reject                     reject or set Down

   Setting Up requires an adjacencyStateChange Up event.  If no ISH has
   classified the neighbor, the IS MUST also send a point-to-point IIH.
   A Down result requires the named event and deletion.  An area change
   that invalidates an Up dual-level adjacency uses Area Mismatch. A
   remote type change that invalidates its current usage uses Wrong
   System Type.

   On an Up or accepted adjacency, the IS MUST replace
   areaAddressesOfNeighbor from the IIH, reload the holding timer, and
   set neighborSystemID from Source ID.  The circuit ID MUST identify
   the endpoint with the numerically greater system ID and that
   endpoint's Local Circuit ID.  Equal system IDs select the local
   endpoint.  The advertised Local Circuit ID itself never changes after
   creation.

   For an already Up adjacency, a changed Source ID or changed computed
   circuit ID requires a Down event and deletion.  If the holding timer
   expires before another accepted IIH arrives, the IS MUST purge the
   adjacency and report adjacencyStateChange Down.

10.7.  Point-to-Point End System Adjacencies

   On receipt of an ESH, the IS MUST enter the End System in the
   adjacency database.  A new NSAP received on the same circuit MUST be
   added to the adjacency with its own timer.  One ESH can add more than
   one NSAP. Each new data-link address or NSAP requires an
   adjacencyStateChange Up event.

   Each NSAP timer MUST use the ESH Holding Time.  On expiry, the IS
   MUST purge the End System after adjacency initialization completes.
   If initialization is still active, it MUST mark the adjacency for
   removal and remove it immediately after initialization.  Removal
   requires an adjacencyStateChange Down event and completion of Down
   processing before reuse.

10.8.  ISO 8208 Circuits

10.8.1.  SVC Establishment and Address Selection

   An implementation that supports ISO 8208 MUST use the ISO 8473
   subnetwork-dependent convergence functions.  A Call Request MUST put
   the ISO 8473 protocol discriminator in the first Call User Data
   octet. A static circuit MUST establish an SVC only on management
   action and MUST call neighborSNPAAddress.  Traffic arrival initiates
   a call on a DA circuit.

   A DA circuit can hold multiple adjacencies to different SNPAs.  For a
   destination NSAP, the IS MUST first select the longest matching
   enabled Reachable Address.  It MUST obtain the SNPA from that
   object's explicit, extractIDI, or extractDSP mapping.  If no prefix,
   including a default prefix, matches, it MUST invoke the ISO 8473
   discard procedure.

   For an explicit set, the IS MUST select an SNPA with an established
   adjacency.  If none has one, it MUST select the SNPA with the oldest
   failure timestamp.  It MUST then use a nonexpired existing adjacency,
   establish a call on a free adjacency, or invoke the discard procedure
   when no adjacency is free.

   If a DA prefix overlaps reachability through a static circuit, every
   comparable DA metric MUST be greater than the static metric.  This
   prevents a call received by the static peer from being mistaken for
   that static circuit.

10.8.2.  DA Call Failure and Reservation

   Every SNPA in an explicit set MUST start with an infinitely old
   failure timestamp.  A failed call MUST replace that SNPA's timestamp
   with the failure time.  If even the oldest timestamp is newer than
   recallTimer, the IS MUST treat the whole set as temporarily
   unreachable and invoke the discard procedure without attempting a
   call.

   A failed call to a single selected SNPA requires the discard
   procedure. The IS MUST place that adjacency in Failed state and start
   its recall timer.  Before expiry, further traffic to that SNPA MUST
   be discarded without a call attempt.  At expiry, the adjacency
   becomes available for a retry or another destination.

   When an SVC is cleared after idleTimer expires, the adjacency remains
   reserved until reserveTimer expires.  The IS SHOULD preserve enough
   subnetwork resources during that interval to attempt a later call.
   When reserveTimer expires, the IS MUST free the adjacency.

10.8.3.  Reverse-Path Reuse

   A DA implementation MAY maintain a ReversePathCache.  If present, the
   cache MUST contain at least one entry.  Before establishing a call,
   the IS MUST reuse an existing adjacency whose cache contains the
   destination NSAP.

   The IS MUST add a received source NSAP only when its incoming remote
   SNPA differs from the SNPA that normal Reachable Address mapping
   would choose.  A full cache MUST replace the least recently used
   entry.  The IS MUST purge an adjacency's cache when reserveTimer
   expires and the adjacency is removed.

10.8.4.  ISO 9542 and IS-IS on DA Circuits

   A DA circuit MUST complete initialization without waiting for an ESH
   or ISH.  The IS MUST NOT send ESH, ISH, or point-to-point IIH PDUs on
   a DA circuit.  It MUST ignore any such PDU received there.  It also
   MUST NOT send LSPs or Sequence Number PDUs on a DA circuit.

10.8.5.  DA Reachability and Cost Changes

   Each DA circuit associates prefixes and SNPAs with four Reachable
   Address metrics and four call-establishment increments.  When the
   circuit is enabled, the IS MUST report each enabled prefix to the
   Update Process.  For an internal metric, the reported cost is the
   Reachable Address metric plus callEstablishmentMetricIncrement.  For
   an external metric, the increment is zero.

   When an SVC to an SNPA becomes established and its applicable
   increment is greater than zero, the IS MUST report the lower
   Reachable Address cost for every explicit prefix using that SNPA.
   For an algorithmic mapping, it MUST also derive and report each
   implied prefix that maps to that SNPA.  This advertises an
   established call at lower cost than a call that still has to be made.

   When the last established SVC for an explicit prefix disappears, the
   IS MUST restore the cost with the applicable increment.  It MUST
   withdraw an implied algorithmic prefix when its adjacency disappears.
   A cost event MUST occur only when the count of established SNPAs for
   the prefix changes between zero and one.

   A management change to a call-establishment increment or an enabled
   Reachable Address metric MUST produce cost-change events for every
   affected actual and implied prefix.  Disabling a Reachable Address
   MUST produce Down events for its actual and implied prefixes.
   Enabling it MUST produce the cost-change events that describe its
   current SVC state.

10.9.  Broadcast Circuit Startup and Hello Transmission

   When a broadcast circuit is enabled, the IS MUST immediately start
   LAN IIH transmission.  Until a DIS is learned, LAN ID MUST be the
   local system ID followed by the one-octet Local Circuit ID.  The IS
   MUST listen for ESHs and begin End System discovery.  It MUST wait
   twice iSISHelloTimer before its first DIS election.

   A Level 1 IS MUST send only Level 1 LAN IIHs.  A Level 2 IS in
   L2-only mode MUST send only Level 2 LAN IIHs.  A Level 2 IS in
   both-level mode MUST send separate Level 1 and Level 2 LAN IIHs and
   maintain a separately jittered timer for each level.

   The IS MUST send Level 1 IIHs to AllL1ISs and Level 2 IIHs to
   AllL2ISs. It MUST listen on every multicast address on which its
   circuit mode operates.  Each IIH MUST list Initializing and Up IS
   adjacencies for its level.  Level 1 lists MUST contain only same-area
   Level 1 adjacencies.  The advertised Circuit Type MUST be valid for
   the PDU level.

   Each LAN IIH SNSDU MUST be at least maxsize minus one octet.  For a
   Level 1 IIH, maxsize is the greater of dataLinkBlocksize and
   originatingL1LSPBufferSize.  For Level 2, it is the greater of
   dataLinkBlocksize and originatingL2LSPBufferSize.  Failure to carry
   the padded IIH prevents the adjacency from becoming Up.

   The IS MUST send the first applicable LAN IIH immediately.  It MUST
   send another after the level's hello timer expires, when the next IIH
   contents change, or when the local DIS role changes.  At least one
   second MUST separate same-level IIHs.  A normal IS uses
   iSISHelloTimer and its holding time is that timer times
   ISISHoldingMultiplier.  A DIS uses dRISISHelloTimer for both
   calculations.

   Contents-triggered transmission MUST NOT reset the periodic timer.
   Timer expiry and a DIS-role transition MUST reset it.  A non-null
   circuitTransmitPassword requires Password Authentication Information
   in every transmitted LAN IIH.

10.10.  LAN IIH Acceptance and Adjacency State

   Before level-specific processing, the receiver MUST apply the domain,
   ID Length, and authentication tests in Section 10.5.  The same
   discard actions and events apply.

   A Level 1 LAN IIH MUST arrive at AllL1ISs and share at least one area
   with manualAreaAddresses.  Otherwise, the IS MUST reject it and
   report areaMismatch.  Maximum Area Addresses MUST match unless the
   local IS implements only the value three.  A mismatch requires
   discard and a maximumAreaAddressesMismatch event.  A successful
   receiver classifies the neighbor as a Level 1 IS.

   A Level 2 LAN IIH received at AllL2ISs passes no area-match test.  A
   successful receiver classifies the neighbor as a Level 2 IS.  Level 1
   and Level 2 IIHs from one system create separate adjacencies.

   An existing adjacency matches the source SNPA, Source ID, and level.
   For a match, the IS MUST reload its holding timer and replace the
   neighbor priority and area-address set from the IIH.

   When no adjacency exists for the source SNPA and level, the IS MUST
   create one in Initializing state.  It MUST set the neighbor type,
   holding timer, priority, system ID, area addresses, and source SNPA
   from the IIH.  It MUST include that SNPA in later IIHs.  When the
   neighbor's IIH lists the local SNPA, the IS MUST set the adjacency Up
   and report adjacencyStateChange Up.

   If an Up neighbor later omits the local SNPA, the IS MUST return the
   adjacency to Initializing and report adjacencyStateChange Down.  If
   no accepted IIH arrives before Holding Time expires, the IS MUST
   purge the adjacency and report adjacencyStateChange Down.

10.11.  LAN Adjacency Capacity

   If the adjacency database is full, the IS MUST compare the new
   adjacency with existing adjacencies of the same level.  Lower
   priority loses.  Equal priority is resolved by lower numeric SNPA
   losing.  If the new adjacency loses, the IS MUST ignore it and report
   rejectedAdjacency.

   If an old adjacency loses, the IS MUST purge it and report
   adjacencyStateChange Down.  The IS MUST wait for Down completion
   before creating the new adjacency.

10.12.  DIS Election, LAN ID, and Pseudonodes

   Each operating level has an independent Designated Intermediate
   System (DIS) election.  Level 1 candidates are the local Level 1
   function and neighbors with Up Level 1 adjacencies.  Level 2
   candidates are the local Level 2 function and neighbors with Up Level
   2 adjacencies.  L2-only mode participates only at Level 2.

   The receiver MUST ignore bit 8 of the Priority octet.  The unsigned
   value in bits 1 through 7 is the usable priority.  The candidate with
   the greatest usable priority MUST win.  The numerically greatest
   source MAC SNPA MUST break a priority tie.  These comparisons make
   the result independent of election history.

   The IS MUST run each applicable election after it sends or accepts an
   IIH that changes a candidate, priority, or adjacency state.  It also
   MUST rerun the election when the presence of an Up End System or IS
   adjacency changes.  Sending the local IIH counts as receiving the
   local candidacy information.

   The local IS MUST NOT declare itself DIS until the circuit has at
   least one Up IS adjacency or one Up, nonmanual End System adjacency.
   If another IS wins, the local LAN ID MUST copy the LAN ID advertised
   by that winner for the level.  If the local IS wins, LAN ID MUST be
   its system ID followed by its Local Circuit ID.  The IS MUST pass the
   selected LAN ID to the Update Process as the pseudonode ID.

   A local Level 1 DIS transition, in either direction, requires a
   lANLevel1DesignatedIntermediateSystemChange event.  On becoming Level
   1 DIS, the IS MUST originate a Level 1 pseudonode LSP that includes
   Up Level 1 IS adjacencies and the current End System configuration.
   It MUST purge the prior DIS's Level 1 pseudonode LSPs and poll the
   End Systems.

   A local Level 2 DIS transition, in either direction, requires a
   lANLevel2DesignatedIntermediateSystemChange event.  On becoming Level
   2 DIS, the IS MUST originate a Level 2 pseudonode LSP containing its
   Up Level 2 IS adjacencies.  It MUST NOT add End Systems as Level 2
   pseudonode members.  It MUST purge the prior DIS's Level 2 pseudonode
   LSPs.  On resigning at either level, the IS MUST purge or update the
   LSPs that depended on its former DIS role.

10.13.  End System Polling and Broadcast ESH Processing

   The IS MUST poll the LAN End System configuration when the circuit is
   enabled, when the set of IS neighbors changes, or when the DIS ID
   changes.  Before polling, it MUST wait a random interval from zero
   through iSISHelloTimer.

   If an IS was removed, the IS MUST clamp each End System adjacency's
   remaining time to the lesser of its current value and (iSISHelloTimer
   + pollESHelloRate) times ISISHoldingMultiplier.  It MUST NOT apply
   this clamp for a change that removed no IS.

   For each local NET, the IS MUST send ISISHoldingMultiplier ISHs.  It
   MUST separate them by iSISHelloTimer, advertise pollESHelloRate as
   the Suggested ES Configuration Timer, and use iSConfigurationTimer
   times ISISHoldingMultiplier as their Holding Time.  It MUST then
   resume ISHs every iSConfigurationTimer with defaultESHelloTimer as
   the suggested timer.

   An ESH from a new source data-link address creates an End System
   adjacency.  New NSAPs from the same source MUST be added with
   separate Holding Time timers.  Each new source or NSAP requires an
   adjacencyStateChange Up event.

   When an ESH timer expires, the IS MUST purge the End System after
   initialization completes.  If initialization is active, it MUST mark
   the adjacency for removal and remove it upon completion.  It MUST
   then report adjacencyStateChange Down and await Down completion
   before reusing the adjacency.

10.14.  ISO 8802 Multicast Bindings

   On an ISO 8802 subnetwork with 48-bit MAC addresses, every IS MUST
   use these bindings:

      AllL1ISs                  01-80-C2-00-00-14
      AllL2ISs                  01-80-C2-00-00-15
      AllIntermediateSystems    09-00-2B-00-00-05
      AllEndSystems             09-00-2B-00-00-04

   A receiver MUST demultiplex Level 1 and Level 2 LAN IIHs by both PDU
   type and destination multicast address.  A PDU received on the wrong
   binding MUST NOT create or refresh an adjacency.

11.  PDU and TLV Encoding

11.1.  Encoding Conventions

   This section uses zero-based octet offsets.  N is the decoded System
   ID length.  A sender MUST encode a multi-octet unsigned integer with
   its most significant octet first.  Within an octet, bit 0 is the
   least significant bit and bit 7 is the most significant bit.

   A sender MUST write every reserved field and reserved bit as zero.
   A receiver MUST ignore a reserved field or bit unless this section
   gives another action.  All numeric fields are unsigned integers.

   A sender MUST encode an NSAP, NET, area address, or address prefix in
   the preferred binary form of ISO 8348.  It MUST place the AFI first.
   Within each octet, it MUST place the earlier semi-octet in bits 7
   through 4.  An odd-length prefix has a zero low-order semi-octet in
   its last octet.

   A sender MUST encode an SNPA according to its subnetwork.  An
   ISO 8802 or ISO 9314 48-bit MAC address occupies six octets in
   hexadecimal representation order.  The first transmitted bit of
   that address is bit 0 of the first octet.  An ISO 8802-6 DQDB SNPA
   occupies eight octets in that subnetwork's hexadecimal form.

11.2.  Common Header

   Every base IS-IS PDU starts with this header.

       Offset  Size  Field
       +------+------+------------------------------------------+
       | 0    | 1    | Intradomain Routing Discriminator        |
       | 1    | 1    | Length Indicator                         |
       | 2    | 1    | Version/Protocol ID Extension            |
       | 3    | 1    | ID Length                                |
       | 4    | 1    | R bits 7..5 | PDU Type bits 4..0         |
       | 5    | 1    | Version                                  |
       | 6    | 1    | Reserved                                 |
       | 7    | 1    | Maximum Area Addresses                   |
       +------+------+------------------------------------------+

   R and Reserved are sent as zero and ignored on receipt.  The
   protocol discriminator MUST be 0x83.  The protocol ID extension and
   Version fields MUST both be 1.  A Version 1 sender MUST set the
   Length Indicator to the fixed-header length for its PDU.

   ID Length values 1 through 8 encode N directly.  Value 0 encodes
   N = 6.  Value 255 encodes N = 0.  Values 9 through 254 are illegal
   and MUST NOT be sent.  A receiver MUST discard an IIH, LSP, or SNP
   whose decoded N differs from the local routing-domain System ID
   length and report an ID-length mismatch.

   Maximum Area Addresses values 1 through 254 encode that number.
   Value 0 encodes 3.  Value 255 MUST NOT be sent.  A sender that
   supports only three addresses MAY send zero.  A Level 1 receiver
   compares the decoded value with the local value.  It MUST discard a
   mismatch and report it.  A receiver that only implements three MAY
   omit that check.  Level 2 LAN IIH, LSP, CSNP, and PSNP receivers
   ignore this field, including an encoded value of 255.

   The PDU Type values are:

       Value  PDU
       -----  ------------------------------------------
       15     Level 1 LAN IIH
       16     Level 2 LAN IIH
       17     Point-to-point IIH
       18     Level 1 LSP
       20     Level 2 LSP
       24     Level 1 CSNP
       25     Level 2 CSNP
       26     Level 1 PSNP
       27     Level 2 PSNP

   The base protocol assigns nine PDU types.  The level pair of each
   LSP, CSNP, and PSNP uses one shared fixed layout.

11.3.  PDU Length and Extension Handling

   PDU Length includes the common header, the type-specific header, and
   all TLVs.  It excludes data-link padding.  TLVs start at the Length
   Indicator and end at PDU Length minus one.  Bytes after PDU Length
   belong to the underlying service and are not IS-IS TLVs.

   Each TLV has a one-octet code, a one-octet value length, and exactly
   that many value octets.  Its total size is Length + 2.  A general
   TLV value can therefore contain 0 through 255 octets.

   A receiver ignores an unknown TLV in an IIH, CSNP, or PSNP.  A
   receiver ignores an unknown LSP TLV for its own calculation but MUST
   retain and flood its bytes unchanged.  An unrecognized PDU type is
   ignored by the base receive process.

   A sender MUST use only the TLVs allowed by Section 11.10.  The base
   specification does not assign a protocol event to a malformed IIH or
   SNP.  An LSP with invalid syntax or an incorrect checksum is a
   defined error.  The receiver MUST discard that LSP and report a
   corrupted-LSP event.  A control PDU larger than 1492 octets receives
   the same invalid-checksum handling.

   Implementation safety note: a decoder ought to establish that PDU
   Length lies between the fixed-header size and the received payload
   size before reading fields.  It ought to reject a truncated TLV, an
   overrun, or an impossible item-length formula.  These bounds checks
   prevent memory access outside the received buffer.  ISO/IEC 10589
   does not define the IIH or SNP event for those failures.

11.4.  LAN IIH PDUs

   Level 1 and Level 2 LAN IIHs have this fixed layout.  Every R field
   is sent as zero and ignored on receipt.

       Offset   Size  Field
       +-------+-----+-------------------------------------------+
       | 0     | 8   | Common header, including R fields         |
       | 8     | 1   | R bits 7..2 | Circuit Type bits 1..0     |
       | 9     | N   | Source ID                                 |
       | 9+N   | 2   | Holding Time, seconds                     |
       | 11+N  | 2   | PDU Length                                |
       | 13+N  | 1   | R bit 7 | Priority bits 6..0              |
       | 14+N  | N+1 | LAN ID                                    |
       | 15+2N | var | TLVs                                      |
       +-------+-----+-------------------------------------------+

   Length Indicator MUST equal 15 + 2N.  For N = 6 it is 27.  PDU
   Type is 15 for Level 1 and 16 for Level 2.

   Circuit Type 1 means Level 1 only.  Value 2 means Level 2 only.
   Value 3 means both levels.  Value 0 is reserved, and a receiver MUST
   ignore the entire IIH when it sees that value.  A Level 1 LAN IIH
   MUST carry 1 or 3.  A Level 2 LAN IIH MUST carry 2 or 3.

   Source ID is the sender's N-octet System ID.  Holding Time states the
   lifetime, in seconds, for the adjacency information.  A receiver
   uses it to reset the adjacency holding timer.

   Priority is an unsigned seven-bit DIS priority.  Bit 7, called bit 8
   in ISO bit numbering, is reserved, sent as zero, and ignored on
   receipt.  A larger value has precedence.  LAN ID is the N-octet
   System ID of the DIS followed by its one-octet pseudonode ID.  The
   sender copies the value announced by the DIS.  The DIS uses its own
   System ID and its locally assigned circuit ID.

   A LAN IIH sender MUST add trailing Padding TLVs until PDU Length is
   at least maxsize - 1.  For Level 1, maxsize is the larger of the
   data-link block size and originatingL1LSPBufferSize.  For Level 2,
   it is the larger of the data-link block size and
   originatingL2LSPBufferSize.

11.5.  Point-to-Point IIH PDU

   Every R field is sent as zero and ignored on receipt.

       Offset  Size  Field
       +------+-----+--------------------------------------------+
       | 0    | 8   | Common header, including R fields          |
       | 8    | 1   | R bits 7..2 | Circuit Type bits 1..0      |
       | 9    | N   | Source ID                                  |
       | 9+N  | 2   | Holding Time, seconds                      |
       | 11+N | 2   | PDU Length                                 |
       | 13+N | 1   | Local Circuit ID                           |
       | 14+N | var | TLVs                                       |
       +------+-----+--------------------------------------------+

   Length Indicator MUST equal 14 + N.  For N = 6 it is 20.  PDU Type
   MUST be 17.  Circuit Type and Source ID use Section 11.4 encodings.
   A sender assigns an eight-bit Local Circuit ID that is unique among
   that sender's circuits.

   During adjacency initialization, the first point-to-point IIH MUST
   be padded so that its containing SNSDU is at least maxsize - 1.
   Here maxsize is the largest data-link block size,
   originatingL1LSPBufferSize, and originatingL2LSPBufferSize.  A
   Padding TLV needs at least two octets.  A PDU already one octet
   short of maxsize cannot and need not receive such a TLV.

11.6.  Link State PDUs

   Level 1 and Level 2 LSPs have this fixed layout.  Common-header R
   fields are sent as zero and ignored on receipt.

       Offset  Size  Field
       +------+-----+--------------------------------------------+
       | 0    | 8   | Common header, including R fields          |
       | 8    | 2   | PDU Length                                 |
       | 10   | 2   | Remaining Lifetime, seconds                |
       | 12   | N+2 | LSP ID                                     |
       | 14+N | 4   | Sequence Number                            |
       | 18+N | 2   | Checksum                                   |
       | 20+N | 1   | P, ATT, overload, and IS Type flags        |
       | 21+N | var | TLVs                                       |
       +------+-----+--------------------------------------------+

   Length Indicator MUST equal 21 + N.  For N = 6 it is 27.  PDU Type
   is 18 for Level 1 and 20 for Level 2.  A receiver MUST be able to
   receive control PDUs through 1492 octets.

   LSP ID consists of the N-octet source System ID, a one-octet
   pseudonode ID, and a one-octet LSP Number.  Pseudonode ID zero
   identifies a non-pseudonode.  LSP Number zero is the first fragment.
   LSP IDs compare as unsigned byte strings.  LSP Number is the least
   significant octet.

   Sequence Number is four octets in a 2^32 sequence space.  Sequence
   number zero is not a valid current LSP.  Remaining Lifetime zero
   denotes a purge.  A receiver treats a zero Checksum as if Remaining
   Lifetime were zero and overwrites a nonzero lifetime with zero.

   The final fixed-header octet has this bit assignment:

       Bit   Mask  Meaning when set
       ---   ----  ---------------------------------------------
       7     0x80  P, partition repair supported
       6     0x40  ATT for error metric
       5     0x20  ATT for expense metric
       4     0x10  ATT for delay metric
       3     0x08  ATT for default metric
       2     0x04  LSP database overload
       1..0  0x03  IS Type

   IS Type 1 denotes a Level 1 IS and 3 denotes a Level 2 IS.  Values 0
   and 2 are unused.  A Level 2 LSP MUST carry IS Type 3.  A Level 2
   receiver ignores the ATT bits.  An overload LSP MUST NOT be used to
   calculate a route that transits its originator.

11.6.1.  LSP Checksum

   The checksum sequence starts at the first LSP ID octet, offset 12,
   and ends at PDU Length minus one.  Remaining Lifetime and all earlier
   octets are excluded so that lifetime aging does not change the
   checksum.  Let L be the sequence length.  Let p = N + 7 be the
   one-based position of the first Checksum octet in that sequence.

   The originator first writes zero in both Checksum octets.  It sets
   C0 = 0 and C1 = 0.  For each sequence octet in order, including both
   zero Checksum octets, it performs:

       C0 = (C0 + octet) modulo 255
       C1 = (C1 + C0) modulo 255

   It then computes these values in modulo 255 arithmetic:

       X = ((L - p) * C0 - C1) modulo 255
       Y = ((L - p + 1) * (-C0) + C1) modulo 255

   If X is zero, the originator replaces it with 255.  If Y is zero, it
   replaces it with 255.  It writes X at offset 18 + N and Y at offset
   19 + N.  Another system MUST NOT change those octets.

   As a source-ID hardware check, the originator can precompute C0 and
   C1 for its own N-octet System ID.  It starts with those values and
   resumes after the encoded System ID in the LSP ID.  This is exactly
   the same result as processing a correct encoded System ID from zero.

   A receiver initializes C0 and C1 to zero and processes the complete
   sequence, including X and Y, with the same two recurrence equations.
   The checksum is valid only when both results are zero modulo 255.
   The base zero-checksum rule above takes precedence when both encoded
   Checksum octets are zero.

11.7.  Complete Sequence Numbers PDUs

   Level 1 and Level 2 CSNPs have this fixed layout.  Common-header R
   fields are sent as zero and ignored on receipt.

       Offset   Size  Field
       +-------+-----+-------------------------------------------+
       | 0     | 8   | Common header, including R fields         |
       | 8     | 2   | PDU Length                                |
       | 10    | N+1 | Source ID                                 |
       | 11+N  | N+2 | Start LSP ID                              |
       | 13+2N | N+2 | End LSP ID                                |
       | 15+3N | var | TLVs                                      |
       +-------+-----+-------------------------------------------+

   Length Indicator MUST equal 15 + 3N.  For N = 6 it is 33.  PDU Type
   is 24 for Level 1 and 25 for Level 2.  Source ID is the sender's
   N-octet System ID followed by a zero circuit ID octet.

   Start LSP ID and End LSP ID define an inclusive range.  Each is an
   N-octet System ID, one pseudonode octet, and one LSP Number octet.
   LSP Entries MUST appear in ascending LSP ID order across all Type 9
   TLVs.

11.8.  Partial Sequence Numbers PDUs

   Level 1 and Level 2 PSNPs have this fixed layout.  Common-header R
   fields are sent as zero and ignored on receipt.

       Offset  Size  Field
       +------+-----+--------------------------------------------+
       | 0    | 8   | Common header, including R fields          |
       | 8    | 2   | PDU Length                                 |
       | 10   | N+1 | Source ID                                  |
       | 11+N | var | TLVs                                       |
       +------+-----+--------------------------------------------+

   Length Indicator MUST equal 11 + N.  For N = 6 it is 17.  PDU Type
   is 26 for Level 1 and 27 for Level 2.  Source ID uses the CSNP
   encoding.  LSP Entries MUST appear in ascending LSP ID order across
   all Type 9 TLVs.

11.9.  Base TLV and Item Encodings

11.9.1.  Area Addresses, Type 1

   The value is a sequence of items.  Each item contains a one-octet
   Address Length followed by that many area-address octets.

       Item offset  Size  Field
       -----------  ----  ----------------------
       0            1     Address Length, A
       1            A     Area Address

   The sum of all 1 + A item sizes MUST equal the TLV Length.  An area
   address is 1 through 20 octets.  When an LSP needs multiple Type 1
   TLVs, every instance except the last MUST contain 12 addresses.

11.9.2.  IS Neighbors, Type 2

   The first value octet is Virtual Flag.  It is 0 or 1.  Each following
   item has four metric octets and an N+1-octet Neighbor ID.  Length is
   1 + K(N + 5) for K neighbor items.  For item index i, 0 <= i < K:

       Value offset  Size  Field
       ------------  ----  --------------------------------
       0             1     Virtual Flag
       1+i(N+5)      1     Default Metric
       2+i(N+5)      1     Delay Metric
       3+i(N+5)      1     Expense Metric
       4+i(N+5)      1     Error Metric
       5+i(N+5)      N+1   Neighbor ID

   A non-pseudonode Neighbor ID is an N-octet System ID followed by
   zero.  A pseudonode Neighbor ID ends in the nonzero circuit ID that
   its DIS assigned.  Level 1 uses the Level 1 DIS.  Level 2 uses the
   Level 2 DIS.

11.9.3.  ES Neighbors, Type 3

   Four metric octets are shared by every listed End System.  Each
   remaining item is one N-octet System ID.  Length is 4 + KN for K
   items.  For item index i, 0 <= i < K:

       Value offset  Size  Field
       ------------  ----  ----------------------
       0             1     Default Metric
       1             1     Delay Metric
       2             1     Expense Metric
       3             1     Error Metric
       4+iN          N     Neighbor System ID

11.9.4.  Metric Octets

   In a Default Metric octet, bit 7 is reserved, sent as zero, and
   ignored on receipt.  Bit 6 is I/E.  Bits 5 through 0 carry a metric
   from 0 through 63.  In each optional metric, bit 7 is S, bit 6 is
   I/E, and bits 5 through 0 carry the metric.

   S = 1 means that the optional metric is unsupported.  Type 2 and
   Type 3 metrics MUST have I/E = 0.  Type 5 can use I/E = 0 for an
   internal metric or I/E = 1 for an external metric.

11.9.5.  Partition Designated Level 2 IS, Type 4

   Length MUST equal N.  The value is the System ID of the partition's
   designated Level 2 IS.

11.9.6.  Prefix Neighbors, Type 5

   The first four value octets are metrics shared by every listed
   prefix.  A sequence of prefix items follows.  Each item has a
   one-octet Prefix Length P in semi-octets and ceil(P/2) octets.

       Value offset  Size       Field
       ------------  ---------  ----------------------
       0             1          Default Metric
       1             1          Delay Metric
       2             1          Expense Metric
       3             1          Error Metric
       4+J           1          Prefix Length, P
       5+J           ceil(P/2)  Address Prefix

   J is the total size of preceding prefix items.  TLV Length equals
   4 plus the sum of 1 + ceil(P/2) for all items.  P is 0 through 40.
   P = 0 matches every NSAP and consumes no prefix octets.  For odd P,
   the low-order semi-octet of the final octet MUST be zero.  Area
   addresses in Level 2 fragment zero imply reachable prefixes at cost
   zero and are not separately listed merely for that purpose.

11.9.7.  48-Bit IS Neighbors, Type 6

   The value is a sequence of six-octet LAN addresses.  Length is a
   multiple of 6.  This TLV can occur more than once.

11.9.8.  Variable-Length IS Neighbors, Type 7

   The first value octet is the shared SNPA Length S.  It is followed by
   K contiguous addresses, each exactly S octets long.  TLV Length is
   1 + KS.  S is nonzero and MUST NOT equal 6.  A six-octet SNPA uses
   Type 6.  SNPAs of different lengths require separate Type 7 TLVs.
   This TLV can occur more than once.

11.9.9.  Padding, Type 8

   The value has zero through 255 arbitrary octets.  The TLV can occur
   more than once.  A receiver ignores its value.

11.9.10.  LSP Entries, Type 9

       Item offset  Size  Field
       -----------  ----  ----------------------
       0            2     Remaining Lifetime
       2            N+2   LSP ID
       4+N          4     LSP Sequence Number
       8+N          2     Checksum

   Each entry is N + 10 octets.  Length is a multiple of N + 10.
   Entries MUST be in ascending LSP ID order across repeated Type 9
   TLVs.

11.9.11.  Authentication Information, Type 10

   TLV Length is 1 through 254.  The first value octet is Authentication
   Type.  The remaining 0 through 253 octets are Authentication Value.

       Value  Authentication Type
       -----  ----------------------------------
       0      Reserved
       1      Cleartext password
       2-254  Reserved
       255    Routing-domain private method

   For type 1, Authentication Value is the password octet string.  The
   base protocol defines no transformation or padding.  A sender MUST
   NOT use a reserved type.

11.9.12.  Originating LSP Buffer Size, Type 14

   Length MUST equal 2.  The value is a two-octet integer from 512
   through 1492.  Level 1 carries originatingL1LSPBufferSize.  Level 2
   carries originatingL2LSPBufferSize.

   This TLV can occur at most once in an LSP.  It MUST precede Type 2,
   Type 3, and Type 5.  It can occur in any fragment.  An originator
   SHOULD use it only in fragment zero, but its presence is never
   required.  A receiver reports a mismatch when the value differs
   from its local originating size, or when the LSP is larger than that
   local size.  It MUST continue processing the LSP in both cases.

11.10.  PDU-Specific TLV Rules

       PDU               Allowed base TLV types
       ----------------  --------------------------------------
       Level 1 LAN IIH   1, 6, 7, 8, 10
       Level 2 LAN IIH   1, 6, 7, 8, 10
       Point-to-point    1, 8, 10
       Level 1 LSP       1, 2, 3, 10, 14
       Level 2 LSP       1, 2, 4, 5, 10, 14
       Level 1/2 CSNP    9, 10
       Level 1/2 PSNP    9, 10

   A Level 1 LAN IIH lists the sender's manual area addresses.  A
   Level 2 LAN IIH MAY omit Type 1, and a Level 2 receiver ignores it.
   Types 6 and 7 list neighbors with Up or Initializing adjacencies at
   the IIH's level.

   A non-pseudonode Level 1 LSP MUST place Type 1 in fragment zero and
   MUST NOT place it in another fragment.  Type 1 MUST precede Types 2
   and 3.  A pseudonode LSP MUST NOT contain Type 1.  All Type 2 fields
   precede Type 3 fields.  No Type 3 field can occur in a lower-numbered
   fragment than any Type 2 field for that originator.

   A non-pseudonode Level 2 LSP MUST place Type 1 in fragment zero and
   MUST NOT place it in another fragment.  A pseudonode LSP MUST NOT
   contain Type 1.  Type 4 is required in fragment zero when the sender
   supports partition repair and is attached.  Type 4 MUST NOT occur in
   a pseudonode or nonzero fragment.  Types 1 and 4 precede Types 2 and
   5.  All Type 2 fields precede Type 5 fields.  No Type 5 field can
   occur in a lower-numbered fragment than any Type 2 field for that
   originator.

11.11.  Password Processing

   An IIH sender with a nonempty circuitTransmitPassword MUST include
   Type 10 with Authentication Type 1 and that password.  A Level 1 LSP
   or SNP sender uses areaTransmitPassword.  A Level 2 LSP or SNP sender
   uses domainTransmitPassword.  An empty applicable transmit password
   causes the sender to omit Type 10.

   When either the circuit transmit password or circuit receive set is
   nonempty, an IIH receiver requires Type 10.  It compares a type 1
   password with every circuitReceivePasswords value.  A match permits
   further processing.  Absence or no match causes discard and an
   authentication-failure event.

   When areaTransmitPassword or areaReceivePasswords is nonempty, a
   Level 1 LSP or SNP receiver requires Type 10.  It compares a type 1
   password with areaReceivePasswords plus areaTransmitPassword.  Level
   2 applies the same rule when domainTransmitPassword or
   domainReceivePasswords is nonempty, using those two domain values.
   Absence or no match causes discard and an authentication-failure
   event.

   If a configured receiver sees a non-password Authentication Type and
   implements that method, acceptance is outside this base protocol.
   If it does not implement the method, it MUST discard the PDU and
   report an authentication failure.  Cleartext authentication protects
   against accidental misconfiguration.  It provides no cryptographic
   integrity or confidentiality.

11.12.  Receive Acceptance

   An IS MUST discard an IIH, LSP, or SNP received on a circuit whose
   externalDomain value is True.  It then applies the ID-length,
   Maximum Area Addresses, circuit-type, and authentication checks in
   the preceding subsections.

   A Level 1 IS MUST discard a Level 2 LSP or SNP.  A Level 2 IS MUST
   discard a Level 1 LSP or SNP received on a circuit whose
   manualL2OnlyMode is True.

   On a broadcast circuit, the source SNPA of an LSP or SNP MUST match
   the neighborSNPAAddress of a same-level adjacency.  On another
   circuit, a same-level adjacency MUST exist.  Failure causes discard
   without a protocol event.

   A broadcast PSNP is addressed to the DIS.  A receiver that is not
   the DIS at the PSNP's level MUST discard it.

12.  Timers and Constants

12.1.  Timer Jitter and Resolution

   Every periodic timer whose expiration can transmit a PDU MUST apply
   25 percent negative jitter.  Let T be the configured interval in the
   implementation's timer ticks, and let M be 25 percent of T.  For
   every expiration, the timer MUST independently select a uniformly
   distributed integer reduction R such that 0 < R < M and use T - R
   ticks.  The resulting interval is therefore strictly greater than 75
   percent of T and strictly less than T at the selected timer
   resolution.

   The timer MUST compute the next expiration from the time of the
   current expiration before it performs the expiration action.  Time
   spent in that action does not extend the next interval.

   The clock step used for jitter MUST be at most 100 ms.  A step of at
   most 10 ms is RECOMMENDED.  A timer specified in seconds has a
   resolution no worse than plus or minus one second.  A timer specified
   in milliseconds has a resolution no worse than plus or minus 10 ms.

12.2.  Architectural Constants

       Name                         Value
       ---------------------------  -----------------------------
       MaxLinkMetric                63
       MaxPathMetric                1023
       ISO-SAP                      0xFE
       IntradomainRouteingPD        0x83
       IntradomainRouteingSelector  0
       SequenceModulus              2^32
       ReceiveLSPBufferSize         1492 octets
       MaxAge                       1200 seconds
       ZeroAgeLifetime              60 seconds
       ISISHoldingMultiplier        10
       Jitter                       25 percent

   These are all architectural constants in the base specification.
   An IIH sender sets Holding Time to ISISHoldingMultiplier times the
   applicable hello interval.  A LAN DIS uses dRISISHelloTimer rather
   than iSISHelloTimer.

12.3.  ISO 8802 Address Constants

       Name                    48-bit MAC address
       ----------------------  -----------------
       AllL1ISs                01-80-C2-00-00-14
       AllL2ISs                01-80-C2-00-00-15
       AllIntermediateSystems  09-00-2B-00-00-05
       AllEndSystems           09-00-2B-00-00-04

   An ISO 8802 circuit MUST use these bindings.  Level 1 and Level 2
   routing PDUs use AllL1ISs and AllL2ISs, respectively.  ISO 9542 uses
   the other two addresses.

12.4.  Managed Timer Defaults

       Parameter                                ISO default
       ---------------------------------------  ----------------
       completeSNPInterval                      10 seconds
       dRISISHelloTimer                         1 second
       iSISHelloTimer                           3 seconds
       maximumLSPGenerationInterval             900 seconds
       minimumBroadcastLSPTransmissionInterval  33 milliseconds
       minimumLSPGenerationInterval             30 seconds
       minimumLSPTransmissionInterval           5 seconds
       partialSNPInterval                       2 seconds
       pollESHelloRate                          50 seconds
       reserveTimer                             600 seconds
       waitingTime                              60 seconds

   An implementation MUST support each ISO default used by a function
   it implements.

12.5.  Other Managed Defaults

       Parameter                         ISO default
       --------------------------------  ------------------------
       callEstablishmentMetricIncrement  0
       defaultMetric                     20
       externalDomain                    True
       l1IntermediateSystemPriority      64
       l2IntermediateSystemPriority      64
       manualAreaAddresses               empty set
       manualL2OnlyMode                  False
       maximumAreaAddresses              3
       maximumPathSplits                 2
       maximumVirtualAdjacencies         2
       metricType                        internal
       neighborSNPAAddress               empty address
       optionalMetric                    0
       originatingL1LSPBufferSize        1492 octets
       originatingL2LSPBufferSize        1492 octets
       password                          empty octet string
       passwords                         empty set
       sNPAAddresses                     empty set

   Originating LSP buffer sizes range from 512 through 1492.  Maximum
   Area Addresses has management syntax 0 through 254.  Wire value zero
   still decodes as three.  Maximum Path Splits ranges from 1 through
   32.  Maximum Virtual Adjacencies ranges from 0 through 32.  DIS
   priority ranges from 1 through 127.  A default metric ranges from 1
   through 63.  An optional metric ranges from 0 through 63.

12.6.  ISO 9542 Operating Constraints

   An IS MUST run ISO 9542 configuration-information functions on every
   supported subnetwork type.  It MUST receive ESH PDUs on every
   circuit.  It MUST send ISH PDUs on broadcast circuits.  It MUST send
   and receive ISH PDUs on point-to-point circuits.

   An IS MUST enable the All Intermediate Systems multicast address.
   When it sends an ISH or redirects an ES to a neighboring IS, it MUST
   put its numerically lowest NET in the ISO 9542 PDU.

12.7.  ISO 8473 Operating Constraint

   An IS that implements area partition repair uses ISO 8473 End System
   functions, including NPDU reassembly, as well as Intermediate System
   functions.  Such an IS MUST conform to both the End System and
   Intermediate System requirements of ISO 8473.

12.8.  Later Deployment Profiles

   The values in Sections 12.2 through 12.5 are the ISO/IEC 10589:2002
   base values.  RFC 3719 later recommends an operational holding
   multiplier of 3 and gives other deployment guidance.  Such a profile
   is an update to configured practice.  It does not change the base
   architectural value 10 reconstructed here.

13.  Forwarding and Receive Processing

13.1.  Routing Metric Selection

   For every data NPDU, the forwarding process MUST select a routing
   level and a forwarding database.  It MUST derive the level from the
   destination address and current system role.  It MUST derive the
   metric from the ISO 8473 QoS Maintenance parameter.

   This subsection uses ISO bit numbering.  Bit 1 is the least
   significant bit and bit 8 is the most significant bit.

   If the parameter is absent, the IS MUST use the default metric.  If
   its format code in bits 8 and 7 is neither 00, strong globally
   unique, nor 11, weak globally unique, the IS MUST also use the
   default metric. For either recognized format, bits 1 through 3 select
   the metric:

      Bit 1   Bit 2   Bit 3   Selected metric
        0       0       0     expense
        1       0       0     default
        0       1       1     default
        0       1       0     expense
        0       0       1     delay
        1       1       0     error
        1       0       1     delay
        1       1       1     error

   Under strong forwarding, the IS MUST use the selected metric without
   fallback.  If that metric is unsupported, has no destination entry,
   or marks the destination unreachable, forwarding fails.

   Under weak forwarding, the IS MUST use the default metric when the
   selected optional metric is unsupported.  It also MUST fall back to
   default when the optional database lacks the destination or marks it
   unreachable.  Otherwise, it MUST use the selected optional metric.

13.2.  Level and Next-Hop Selection

   The forwarding process MUST ignore the selector octet when choosing a
   route.  Source routing, when present, supplies the current
   destination entry.  Otherwise, the NPDU destination supplies the area
   address and system ID used below.

   A Level 1 IS, and a Level 2 IS whose AttachedFlag for the selected
   metric is false, MUST use the Level 1 database.  For a destination in
   any local area, it MUST select the next hop to that destination.  For
   another area, it MUST select the next hop toward the nearest Level 2
   IS in the local area.

   A Level 2 IS whose AttachedFlag for the selected metric is true MUST
   use the Level 1 database for a normal destination in a local area.
   It MUST use the Level 2 database for a destination outside all local
   areas.  When multiple reachable prefixes match, it MUST select the
   longest prefix before selecting the next hop.

   A partition-repair wrapper is identified by local-area source and
   destination NETs whose selectors are IntradomainRouteingSelector and
   by use of the default metric.  The receiving Level 2 IS MUST prefer
   the Level 2 path toward the remote Partition Designated Level 2 IS
   over a Level 1 path that traverses a virtual link.

13.3.  Forwarding Result and Redirects

   The IS MUST select a next-hop adjacency from the chosen forwarding
   database.  When several equal-cost adjacencies exist, it MAY choose
   one at random or rotate among them.  The choice MUST be confined to
   the equal-cost set.

   If no database entry exists for a locally originated NPDU and at
   least one IS adjacency exists, the IS MUST choose such an adjacency
   at random or by rotation.  This exception permits management access
   while the routing database is incomplete.  It MUST NOT be applied to
   a relayed NPDU.

   If no allowed adjacency exists, forwarding MUST return failure to the
   ISO 8473 protocol machine.  That machine MUST apply its discard and
   error-reporting rules.  Before transmission, the IS MUST apply the
   subnetwork-dependent fragmentation rules for the selected circuit.

   If an NPDU received directly from an End System is forwarded on the
   same circuit, the IS MUST ask the ISO 9542 protocol machine to send a
   Redirect PDU to the source SNPA.  An NPDU received from an IS MUST
   NOT cause that redirect.

13.4.  Partition-Repair Encapsulation

   A Partition Designated Level 2 IS that forwards across a virtual
   adjacency to another area partition MUST wrap the complete original
   PDU in an ISO 8473 data NPDU.  The outer source MUST identify the
   local Partition Designated Level 2 IS.  The outer destination MUST be
   the remote system named by the Virtual Adjacency.  Both selectors
   MUST be IntradomainRouteingSelector, and the outer header MUST
   request the default metric.

   The wrapper applies to data NPDUs, LSPs, and Sequence Number PDUs
   that cross the virtual adjacency.  The IS MUST forward the wrapper
   through the Level 2 database.  It MUST NOT send an encapsulated IIH
   because the Decision Process creates and monitors virtual
   adjacencies.

13.5.  Receive Demultiplexing and Decapsulation

   On receipt of an IS-IS NLPID PDU, the Receive Process MUST dispatch
   an LSP or Sequence Number PDU to the Update Process.  It MUST
   dispatch an IIH to the subnetwork-dependent function for its circuit
   kind and level.  It MUST ignore another IS-IS PDU type that has no
   defined receiver.

   An ISO 8473 data NPDU or Error Report for another destination MUST go
   to the Forwarding Process.  A locally addressed data NPDU whose
   selector is not IntradomainRouteingSelector MUST go to the normal ISO
   8473 local-delivery path.

   For a locally addressed data NPDU whose selector is
   IntradomainRouteingSelector, the IS MUST remove the outer header.  If
   the inner PDU is an ISO 8473 NPDU, the IS MUST copy the outer
   congestion indication into the inner NPDU and pass it to the ISO 8473
   protocol machine.  If the inner PDU is an LSP or Sequence Number PDU,
   it MUST pass it to the Update Process.  It MUST ignore any other
   inner PDU.

   If a locally addressed ISO 8473 Error NPDU uses
   IntradomainRouteingSelector, the IS MUST notify system management and
   discard the Error NPDU.  It MUST NOT treat that Error NPDU as routing
   information.

13.6.  ISO 8802 LLC Binding

   On an ISO 8802 circuit, the IS MUST place every IS-IS PDU in an LLC
   UI frame with destination SAP FE, source SAP FE, and control octet
   03.  A received LLC UI payload MUST enter the IS-IS receive
   demultiplexer only when its destination SAP is FE.  A frame delivered
   to another destination SAP MUST NOT enter the IS-IS receive path.

   A Level 1 LAN IIH MUST use AllL1ISs at 01-80-C2-00-00-14.  A Level 2
   LAN IIH MUST use AllL2ISs at 01-80-C2-00-00-15.  The transmitter MUST
   preserve the selected level's multicast binding through data-link
   submission.  Failure to submit the frame is a circuit transmission
   failure and MUST NOT refresh any local or remote adjacency timer.

14.  Management and Conformance

14.1.  Management Model

   System management is part of protocol conformance.  A separate claim
   covers conformance to the OSI management-information model.  A
   protocol implementation can satisfy the first claim without acting as
   an OSI manager or agent under the second claim.

   An IS that claims protocol conformance MUST expose every management
   attribute referenced by the protocol behavior in this document.  It
   MUST support each specified default and each explicitly required
   value.  An IS that omits such an attribute or value does not conform.

   The managed resources form a containment tree rooted at the network
   entity.  The CLNS protocol machine contains destination-system,
   destination-area, and virtual-adjacency objects.  A linkage contains
   reachable-address and adjacency objects.  The destination base class
   is abstract and MUST NOT be instantiated.

   The ISO object identifier base is:

      ISIS = {joint-iso-itu-t network-layer(13) management(0) iSIS(1)}
           = {2 13 0 1}

   The subordinate arcs used by this management model are:

      sseoi  standardSpecificExtensions(0)       {2 13 0 1 0}
      se     specificProblems(3), below sseoi    {2 13 0 1 0 3}
      moi    managedObjectClass(3)                {2 13 0 1 3}
      poi    package(4)                           {2 13 0 1 4}
      proi   parameter(5)                         {2 13 0 1 5}
      nboi   nameBinding(6)                       {2 13 0 1 6}
      aoi    attribute(7)                         {2 13 0 1 7}
      agoi   attributeGroup(8)                    {2 13 0 1 8}
      acoi   action(9)                            {2 13 0 1 9}
      noi    notification(10)                     {2 13 0 1 10}

   The specific-problem assignments under {2 13 0 1 0 3} are:

       0  areaMismatch
       1  attemptToExceedMaximumSequenceNumber
       2  authenticationFailure
       3  corruptedLSPsDetected
       4  iDFieldLengthMismatch
       5  lanL1DesignatedIntermediateSystemChange
       6  lSPL1DatabaseOverload
       7  lSPL2DatabaseOverload
       8  manualAddressDroppedFromArea
       9  maximumAreaAddressesMismatch
      10  ownLSPPurge
      11  partitionVirtualLinkChange
      12  rejectedAdjacency
      13  sequenceNumberSkip
      14  versionSkew
      15  originatingLSPBufferSizeMismatch

   Thus, for example, authenticationFailure is {2 13 0 1 0 3 2}.
   The 2002 edition refers to
   lanL2DesignatedIntermediateSystemChange and
   lSPTooLargeToPropagate but assigns neither an OID in its clause 11.3
   ASN.1 module.  An implementation MUST NOT invent an assignment for
   either name.  The alarm behavior spells the value at 3 as
   corruptedLSPDetected, while the registered ASN.1 label is
   corruptedLSPsDetected.  The numeric OID {2 13 0 1 0 3 3} controls.
   pDUDiscard is imported from ISO/IEC 10733 and has no assignment under
   the specific-problems arc above.

   Event parameters are assigned under {2 13 0 1 5} as follows:

      10  constraintViolation
      11  notificationReceivingAdjacency
      12  notificationIDLength
      13  notificationAreaAddress
      14  notificationSourceId
      15  notificationVirtualLinkChange
      16  notificationVirtualLinkAddress
      19  notificationSystemId
      23  notificationVersion
      24  notificationDesignatedIntermediateSystemChange
      25  notificationOverloadStateChange
      27  reservedName
      28  notificationMaximumAreaAddresses
      29  notificationAreaAddresses
      30  notificationLSPHeader

   The principal managed-object-class assignments are adjacency 1,
   virtual adjacency 2, destination 3, destination system 4,
   destination area 7, and reachable address 8.  The principal
   name-binding assignments are destination system 1, destination area
   2, virtual adjacency 3, imported reachable address 5, managed
   reachable address 6, automatic adjacency 7, and managed adjacency 8.
   A claimed object or binding MUST use its assigned identifier.

14.2.  Managed Objects and Packages

   In the package descriptions below, GET-REPLACE means that both GET
   and REPLACE are present.  REPLACE-WITH-DEFAULT is the distinct
   set-to-default operation declared by GDMO. Each package supplies
   only its named content.  No common rule adds every metric,
   identifier, priority, timer, state, or counter to every linkage
   package.

   cLNSISISBasic-P {2 13 0 1 4 1} is mandatory on the cLNS object.  It
   provides GET for version, systemId, l1State, and areaAddresses.
   iSType is derived at creation and then has GET.  The following have
   GET-REPLACE and REPLACE-WITH-DEFAULT:
   maximumPathSplits, minimumLSPTransmissionInterval,
   maximumLSPGenerationInterval,
   minimumBroadcastLSPTransmissionInterval, completeSNPInterval,
   originatingL1LSPBufferSize, maximumAreaAddresses,
   minimumLSPGenerationInterval, pollESHelloRate, partialSNPInterval,
   waitingTime, and dRISISHelloTimer.  manualAreaAddresses has GET,
   ADD-REMOVE, and REPLACE-WITH-DEFAULT.

   cLNSISISBasic-P also provides GET for these counters:
   corruptedLSPsDetected, lSPL1DatabaseOverloads,
   manualAddressesDroppedFromArea,
   attemptsToExceedMaximumSequenceNumber, sequenceNumberSkips,
   ownLSPPurges, iDFieldLengthMismatches,
   maximumAreaAddressesMismatches,
   originatingLSPBufferSizeMismatches, and
   lSPTooLargeToPropagate.  It supplies communicationsAlarm and
   communicationsInformation notifications.

   cLNSISISLevel2-P {2 13 0 1 4 2} is mandatory when the cLNS object
   operates at Level 2.  originatingL2LSPBufferSize has GET-REPLACE and
   REPLACE-WITH-DEFAULT.  l2State and lSPL2DatabaseOverloads have GET.
   The package supplies communicationsAlarm.

   cLNSISISPartitionRepair-P {2 13 0 1 4 3} is mandatory when partition
   repair is supported.  maximumVirtualAdjacencies has GET-REPLACE and
   REPLACE-WITH-DEFAULT.  partitionAreaAddresses,
   partitionDesignatedL2IntermediateSystem, and
   partitionVirtualLinkChanges have GET.  The package supplies
   communicationsInformation.

   cLNSISISAuthentication-P {2 13 0 1 4 4} is mandatory for supported
   area and Level 1 LSP or SNP authentication.  areaTransmitPassword has
   GET-REPLACE and REPLACE-WITH-DEFAULT.  areaReceivePasswords has
   GET-REPLACE, ADD-REMOVE, and REPLACE-WITH-DEFAULT.
   authenticationFailures has GET.  The package includes the counters
   group and communicationsAlarm with notificationSystemId.

   cLNSISISLevel2Authentication-P {2 13 0 1 4 5} is mandatory for
   supported domain and Level 2 LSP or SNP authentication.
   domainTransmitPassword has GET-REPLACE and REPLACE-WITH-DEFAULT.
   domainReceivePasswords has GET-REPLACE, ADD-REMOVE, and
   REPLACE-WITH-DEFAULT.

   linkageISISBasic-P {2 13 0 1 4 6} is mandatory on every IS-IS
   linkage.  type is derived at creation and then has GET.
   iSISHelloTimer, l1DefaultMetric, l1DelayMetric, l1ExpenseMetric,
   l1ErrorMetric, and externalDomain have GET-REPLACE and
   REPLACE-WITH-DEFAULT.  These counters have GET:
   changesInAdjacencyState, initialisationFailures,
   rejectedAdjacencies, iSISControlPDUsSent, iSISControlPDUsReceived,
   iDFieldLengthMismatches, and maximumAreaAddressesMismatches.  The
   package supplies communicationsAlarm.

   linkageISISBroadcast-P {2 13 0 1 4 7} is mandatory on a broadcast
   linkage.  l1IntermediateSystemPriority has GET-REPLACE and
   REPLACE-WITH-DEFAULT.  l1CircuitID,
   l1DesignatedIntermediateSystem, and
   lanL1DesignatedIntermediateSystemChanges have GET.  The package
   supplies communicationsInformation.

   linkageISISPtToPt-P {2 13 0 1 4 8} is mandatory on a point-to-point
   linkage and supplies only GET for ptPtCircuitID.

   linkageISISDACallEstablishmentMetricIncrement-P
   {2 13 0 1 4 9} is mandatory when positive call-establishment
   increments are supported and the parent cLNS object has Level 2
   iSType.  callEstablishmentDefaultMetricIncrement,
   callEstablishmentDelayMetricIncrement,
   callEstablishmentExpenseMetricIncrement, and
   callEstablishmentErrorMetricIncrement each have GET-REPLACE and
   REPLACE-WITH-DEFAULT.

   linkageISISStatic-P {2 13 0 1 4 11} is mandatory on a static
   linkage.  outgoingCallIVMO and neighbourSNPAAddress have GET-REPLACE
   and REPLACE-WITH-DEFAULT.  ptPtCircuitID has GET.

   linkageISISLevel2-P {2 13 0 1 4 13} is mandatory on a Level 2
   linkage.  l2DefaultMetric, l2DelayMetric, l2ExpenseMetric,
   l2ErrorMetric, and manualL2OnlyMode each have GET-REPLACE and
   REPLACE-WITH-DEFAULT.

   iSISLevel2Broadcast-P {2 13 0 1 4 14} is mandatory on a broadcast
   linkage that participates at Level 2.  l2IntermediateSystemPriority
   has GET-REPLACE and REPLACE-WITH-DEFAULT.  l2CircuitID,
   l2DesignatedIntermediateSystem, and
   lanL2DesignatedIntermediateSystemChanges have GET.  The package
   supplies communicationsInformation.

   linkageISISAuthentication-P {2 13 0 1 4 15} is mandatory on each
   linkage where IIH authentication is supported.
   circuitTransmitPassword has GET-REPLACE and REPLACE-WITH-DEFAULT.
   circuitReceivePasswords has GET-REPLACE, ADD-REMOVE, and
   REPLACE-WITH-DEFAULT.  authenticationFailures has GET.  The package
   includes the counters group and communicationsAlarm with
   notificationSystemId.

   An authentication claim MUST include every applicable package.  Area
   authentication uses cLNSISISAuthentication-P.  Level 2 domain
   authentication uses cLNSISISLevel2Authentication-P.  IIH
   authentication uses linkageISISAuthentication-P on every affected
   linkage.  Partial support for the PDU families covered by the claim
   is nonconforming.

   iSAdjacency-P {2 13 0 1 4 19} is mandatory for an IS neighbor and
   provides GET for adjacencyUsage, areaAddressesOfNeighbour, and
   holdingTimer.  broadcastISAdjacency-P {2 13 0 1 4 20} is also
   mandatory when that neighbor's parent linkage is broadcast and
   provides GET for priorityOfNeighbour.

   explicitSNPA-P {2 13 0 1 4 22} is mandatory when mappingType is
   explicit and provides GET-REPLACE for sNPAAddresses.  extractDSP-P
   {2 13 0 1 4 23} is mandatory when mappingType is extractDSP.
   sNPAMask and sNPAPrefix each have GET-REPLACE and
   REPLACE-WITH-DEFAULT.
   sNPAMask-Default and sNPAPrefix-Default are empty bit strings.

   An adjacency object exposes its identifier, state, neighbor SNPA
   address, neighbor system type, and neighbor system identifiers.
   Protocol-created and management-created adjacencies use distinct name
   bindings.  A management request whose identifier begins with "Auto"
   MUST fail with reservedName {2 13 0 1 5 27}.

   A virtual-adjacency object exposes the remote network entity title
   and the default-metric cost of the least-cost Level 2 path.  It is
   valid only below a Level 2 cLNS object.  Destination-system and
   destination-area values MUST match the decision process.  A
   destination-area object is valid only for a Level 2 cLNS object.

   A reachable-address object exposes its identifier, address prefix,
   mapping type, metrics, metric types, operational state, and next-hop
   SNPA information.  An object imported from another routing protocol
   uses the imported binding.  An object created by management uses the
   management binding.  A managed identifier beginning with "Auto" MUST
   fail with reservedName.

   reachableAddress-P includes GET for operationalState and confirmed
   activate and deactivate actions.  Once activate start-up has been
   initiated successfully, administrativeState MUST become unlocked if
   that attribute exists and the agent MUST return successResponse.
   When start-up completes successfully, operationalState MUST be
   enabled.  An initiation failure MUST return failureResponse and its
   reason.

   Once deactivate stopping has been initiated successfully,
   administrativeState MUST become locked if that attribute exists and
   the agent MUST return successResponse.  When stopping completes,
   operationalState MUST be disabled.  An initiation failure MUST
   return failureResponse and its reason.

   Imported management definitions create no IS-IS instance requirement
   by themselves.  A communication entity is disabled when it or a
   required resource is inoperable and enabled when it is operable.  A
   shutdown with active users MUST reject new users, enter
   shutting-down state, and return successResponse. When the last user
   leaves, stopping MUST be initiated and administrativeState MUST
   become locked. operationalState MUST become disabled only when
   stopping completes. With no active user, successful initiation MUST
   set administrativeState to locked immediately and return
   successResponse. operationalState MUST become disabled only when
   stopping completes. A failure to initiate shutdown MUST return
   failureResponse and its reason.

14.3.  Attribute Change Semantics

   The supplyValueOnCreate-B behavior applies only to these attributes:

      iSType in cLNSISISBasic-P
      type in linkageISISBasic-P
      neighbourSNPAAddress and neighbourSystemIds in adjacency-P
      addressPrefix and mappingType in reachableAddress-P

   For an automatically created object, the protocol machine supplies
   the initial value.  For a management-created object, CREATE supplies
   it.  These six values MUST NOT change after creation.  Other values
   present at CREATE remain governed by their declared operations,
   including REPLACE where it is declared.

   Maximum area addresses, maximum path splits, originating LSP buffer
   sizes, manual Level 2-only mode, and a managed neighbor SNPA address
   can be replaced only while the affected object is disabled.  A
   request while it is enabled MUST fail with constraintViolation
   {2 13 0 1 5 10}.

   A resource limit MUST be replaceable while its object is disabled.
   An implementation MAY increase the limit while enabled.  It MUST NOT
   decrease the limit below the amount in use.  A disallowed replacement
   MUST fail with constraintViolation.

   For resettingTimer-B, let Tstart be the start of the current
   interval, Tchange the replacement time, and Dnew the new duration.
   The next expiry MUST be:

      max(Tstart + Dnew, Tchange)

   A recalculated deadline in the past therefore expires immediately.
   This rule applies to completeSNPInterval,
   maximumLSPGenerationInterval,
   minimumBroadcastLSPTransmissionInterval,
   minimumLSPGenerationInterval, minimumLSPTransmissionInterval,
   partialSNPInterval, and waitingTime.

   resettingHoldingTimer-B has a different bound.  If Eexisting is the
   pending expiry, its next expiry MUST satisfy:

      Enext <= min(Eexisting, Tchange + Dnew)

   The replacement cannot extend the interval beyond its existing
   expiry or one newly specified interval from the replacement.  The
   original-start recalculation above does not apply.  This rule applies
   to dRISISHelloTimer and iSISHelloTimer.

   Both timer behaviors retain the precision of the timer's basic
   operation.  The syntax precision for reading or writing a timer and
   the precision of protocol-event generation are separate properties.
   For every supported timer-bearing object and package, the applicable
   MOCS MUST state protocol-event precision.

   Every attribute derived from nonWrappingCounter MUST start at zero,
   increment by the amount defined for each refined event, and increase
   monotonically throughout its lifetime.  It MUST NOT wrap, reset,
   decrease, or omit a defined increment.  Its representation MUST hold
   every foreseeable count without an upper bound below 2^64-1.  A
   narrower representation is permitted only if every achievable count
   still fits.

14.4.  Notifications and Operational State

   Except for the imported pDUDiscard event, every alarm below is a
   communicationsAlarm.  It MUST carry the named specificProblems value,
   probableCause, and perceivedSeverity.  Required parameters appear in
   additionalInformation.  Each item marked false MUST have its
   significance member set to false.  Further parameters are permitted
   only in additionalInformation.  An agent MUST NOT issue a later alarm
   with perceivedSeverity Cleared for any IS-IS-defined alarm below.

   The complete alarm requirements are:

   o  When cLNSISISBasic-P discards an ISO 8473 data PDU, the agent MUST
      use the pDUDiscard problem, cause, severity, fields, and counter
      behavior imported from ISO/IEC 10733.  It MUST add
      notificationReceivingAdjacency {2 13 0 1 5 11}, containing the
      local adjacency name and significance false.  ISO/IEC 10589 adds
      no new counter for this event.

   o  When l1State changes from On to Waiting or from Waiting to On,
      specificProblems MUST be lSPL1DatabaseOverload
      {2 13 0 1 0 3 6}.  probableCause MUST be
      NLM.resourceAtOrNearingCapacity and perceivedSeverity MUST be
      Major.  notificationOverloadStateChange {2 13 0 1 5 25} MUST give
      the resulting state with significance false.  If that state is
      Waiting, notificationSourceId {2 13 0 1 5 14} MUST also identify
      the precipitating LSP with significance false.  The agent MUST
      increment lSPL1DatabaseOverloads.

   o  The equivalent l2State transition in cLNSISISLevel2-P has
      specificProblems lSPL2DatabaseOverload {2 13 0 1 0 3 7}.  It has
      the same cause, severity, additional-information requirements, and
      Waiting-state condition as the Level 1 event.  The agent MUST
      increment lSPL2DatabaseOverloads.

   o  When a manualAreaAddresses value is excluded because the distinct
      addresses exceed maximumAreaAddresses, specificProblems MUST be
      manualAddressDroppedFromArea {2 13 0 1 0 3 8}.  probableCause MUST
      be NLM.configurationOrCustomisationError and perceivedSeverity
      MUST be Major.  notificationAreaAddress {2 13 0 1 5 13} MUST give
      the excluded address with significance false.  The agent MUST
      increment manualAddressesDroppedFromArea and issue one report for
      each newly dropped address.  It MUST NOT repeat that report until
      the address has first been reinstated.

   o  When a corrupt LSP is found in memory, specificProblems MUST use
      value 3, {2 13 0 1 0 3 3}.  The ASN.1 label for that value is
      corruptedLSPsDetected although the behavior says
      corruptedLSPDetected.  probableCause MUST be NLM.corruptData and
      perceivedSeverity MUST be Minor.  No additional-information field
      is required.  The agent MUST increment corruptedLSPsDetected.

   o  When incrementing an LSP sequence number beyond its maximum is
      attempted, specificProblems MUST be
      attemptToExceedMaximumSequenceNumber {2 13 0 1 0 3 1}.
      probableCause MUST be NLM.communicationsProtocolError and
      perceivedSeverity MUST be Major.  No additional-information field
      is required.  The agent MUST increment
      attemptsToExceedMaximumSequenceNumber.

   o  When a received PDU's ID length differs from the receiver's value,
      cLNSISISBasic-P or linkageISISBasic-P MUST report
      iDFieldLengthMismatch {2 13 0 1 0 3 4}.  probableCause MUST be
      NLM.configurationOrCustomisationError and perceivedSeverity MUST
      be Major.  notificationIDLength {2 13 0 1 5 12} and
      notificationSourceId {2 13 0 1 5 14} are both required with
      significance false.  The reporting object MUST increment its
      iDFieldLengthMismatches counter.

   o  When a received maximum-area-addresses value differs from the
      receiver's value, cLNSISISBasic-P or linkageISISBasic-P MUST
      report maximumAreaAddressesMismatch {2 13 0 1 0 3 9}.
      probableCause MUST be NLM.configurationOrCustomisationError and
      perceivedSeverity MUST be Major. notificationMaximumAreaAddresses
      {2 13 0 1 5 28} and notificationSourceId {2 13 0 1 5 14} are
      required with significance false.  The reporting object MUST
      increment its maximumAreaAddressesMismatches counter.

   o  When a zero-aged copy of the local system's own LSP arrives from
      another system, specificProblems MUST be ownLSPPurge
      {2 13 0 1 0 3 10}.  probableCause MUST be
      NLM.communicationsProtocolError and perceivedSeverity MUST be
      Minor.  No additional-information field is required.  The agent
      MUST increment ownLSPPurges.

   o  When a received Level 1 or Level 2 LSP exceeds the applicable
      local originating buffer size, or its originating-buffer-size
      option disagrees with that value, specificProblems MUST be
      originatingLSPBufferSizeMismatch {2 13 0 1 0 3 15}.
      probableCause MUST be NLM.configurationOrCustomisationError and
      perceivedSeverity MUST be Minor.  notificationLSPHeader
      {2 13 0 1 5 30} is required with significance false.  The agent
      MUST increment originatingLSPBufferSizeMismatches.

   o  When propagation is attempted for an LSP larger than a circuit's
      dataLinkBlocksize, specificProblems MUST identify
      lSPTooLargeToPropagate.  The 2002 edition assigns that name no
      OID.
      probableCause MUST be NLM.configurationOrCustomisationError and
      perceivedSeverity MUST be Major.  notificationLSPHeader
      {2 13 0 1 5 30} is required with significance false.  The agent
      MUST increment lSPTooLargeToPropagate.

      The source misspells notificationLSPHeader as
      notificaitonLSPHeader in one sentence and lists the undefined
      notificationlSPTooLargeToPropagate in the package declaration.
      Implementations MUST use notificationLSPHeader.  The two defective
      spellings do not define new identifiers.

      Clause 11.2.2.1 spells the name as dataLinkBlockSize in this alarm
      definition. That capitalization is a source defect. It does not
      define a different circuit parameter.

   o  When received PDU authentication information is incorrect,
      cLNSISISAuthentication-P or linkageISISAuthentication-P MUST
      report authenticationFailure {2 13 0 1 0 3 2}.  probableCause MUST
      be NLM.configurationOrCustomisationError and perceivedSeverity
      MUST be Major.  notificationSystemId {2 13 0 1 5 19} is required
      with significance false.  The reporting object MUST increment its
      authenticationFailures counter.

   o  When adjacency initialization fails because protocol versions are
      incompatible, linkageISISBasic-P MUST report versionSkew
      {2 13 0 1 0 3 14}.  probableCause MUST be NLM.versionMismatch and
      perceivedSeverity MUST be Major.  notificationVersion
      {2 13 0 1 5 23} is required with significance false.  The agent
      MUST increment initialisationFailures.

   o  When two Level 1 ISs fail initialization because their
      area-address sets do not intersect, linkageISISBasic-P MUST report
      areaMismatch {2 13 0 1 0 3 0}.  probableCause MUST be
      NLM.configurationOrCustomisationError and perceivedSeverity MUST
      be Major.  notificationAreaAddresses {2 13 0 1 5 29} and
      notificationSystemId {2 13 0 1 5 19} are both required with
      significance false.  The agent MUST increment
      initialisationFailures.

   o  When a new adjacency is rejected for lack of resources,
      linkageISISBasic-P MUST report rejectedAdjacency
      {2 13 0 1 0 3 12}.  probableCause MUST be
      NLM.resourceAtOrNearingCapacity and perceivedSeverity MUST be
      Major.  notificationSystemId {2 13 0 1 5 19} is required.  The
      published behavior assigns no significance value to this item.
      The agent MUST increment rejectedAdjacencies.

   The complete information and state-event requirements are:

   o  When an LSP sequence number advances by more than one,
      cLNSISISBasic-P MUST issue communicationsInformation with
      informationType sequenceNumberSkip {2 13 0 1 0 3 13}.  No field
      is required in informationData and no other top-level field is
      added.  The agent MUST increment sequenceNumberSkips.

   o  When a partition virtual link is created or deleted,
      cLNSISISPartitionRepair-P MUST issue communicationsInformation
      with informationType partitionVirtualLinkChange
      {2 13 0 1 0 3 11}.  notificationVirtualLinkChange
      {2 13 0 1 5 15} MUST say created or deleted.
      notificationVirtualLinkAddress {2 13 0 1 5 16} MUST contain the
      remote Level 2 IS NET.  The agent MUST increment
      partitionVirtualLinkChanges and preserve relative order for the
      same virtual link.

   o  On a local Level 1 DIS election or resignation,
      linkageISISBroadcast-P MUST issue communicationsInformation with
      informationType lanL1DesignatedIntermediateSystemChange
      {2 13 0 1 0 3 5}.
      notificationDesignatedIntermediateSystemChange
      {2 13 0 1 5 24} MUST say elected or resigned.  The agent MUST
      increment lanL1DesignatedIntermediateSystemChanges and preserve
      relative order.

   o  On a local Level 2 DIS election or resignation,
      iSISLevel2Broadcast-P MUST issue communicationsInformation with
      informationType lanL2DesignatedIntermediateSystemChange.  The
      2002 edition assigns that name no OID.
      notificationDesignatedIntermediateSystemChange
      {2 13 0 1 5 24} MUST say elected or resigned.  The agent MUST
      increment lanL2DesignatedIntermediateSystemChanges and preserve
      relative order.

   o  An adjacency MUST issue stateChange when adjacencyState changes or
      the object is deleted.  Exactly one parameter set MUST appear in
      stateChangeDefinition.  It MUST contain only the mandatory
      attributeId and newAttributeValue fields.  Deletion reports the
      new value Down.  The containing linkage MUST increment
      changesInAdjacencyState for every defined adjacency-state event.

   o  reachableAddress-P MUST issue the objectCreation, objectDeletion,
      and stateChange notifications imported through the ISO/IEC 10733
      common behaviors.  It MUST use their imported fields and
      semantics.  These events MUST NOT be replaced with
      communicationsInformation.

14.5.  Protocol Implementation Conformance

14.5.1.  Static Conformance

   A conforming IS MUST implement the mandatory decision, update,
   forwarding, receive, PDU, timer, and management behavior in Sections
   5 through 14.  It MUST calculate a default-metric least-cost route,
   require a live LSP zero before using an originator's other LSPs,
   apply path preference and robustness checks, and construct the
   forwarding information base.  Failure of any mandatory function
   invalidates the protocol claim.

   The IS MUST generate local and multiple LSPs, refresh them
   periodically, regenerate them after defined events, compute their
   checksums, flood them, process sequence-number PDUs, and run overload
   procedures.  It MUST select the applicable forwarding information
   base and implement the receive process.  A transmitted PDU MUST use
   the encoding in Section 11.  A PDU or state transition that violates
   those rules invalidates conformance.

   An IS with a point-to-point circuit MUST form and maintain the
   required adjacencies.  An IS with an ISO 8208 circuit MUST support
   the applicable network-layer convergence and call procedures.  An IS
   with a broadcast circuit MUST support pseudonodes, designated-IS
   operation, LAN adjacency operation, and broadcast LSP rate control.
   A missing function invalidates the claim for that circuit type.

   An IS that supports partition repair MUST implement its route
   calculation, encapsulation, decapsulation, and virtual-link behavior.
   An IS that supports reachable addresses, call-metric increments, or a
   reverse-path cache MUST implement every procedure tied to that
   option.  An IS that supports authentication MUST implement
   authentication processing for every applicable IIH, LSP, and SNP PDU.
   Partial implementation invalidates the corresponding option claim.

   A Level 1 IS MUST identify the nearest Level 2 IS, generate Level 1
   LSPs and applicable pseudonode LSPs, and implement the Level 1
   waiting state.  A Level 2 IS MUST set the attached indication,
   generate Level 2 LSPs and applicable pseudonode LSPs, and implement
   the Level 2 waiting state.  A role claim that omits one of these
   functions is invalid.

   Every IS MUST run the required ISO 9542 configuration functions.  It
   MUST receive ESH PDUs on every circuit, send ISH PDUs on broadcast
   circuits, and send and receive ISH PDUs on point-to-point circuits.
   It MUST enable the All Intermediate Systems subnetwork address.  When
   it sends an ISH or a redirect, it MUST place its numerically lowest
   network entity title in the PDU.  Failure of one operation
   invalidates protocol conformance.

   An IS that supports area partition repair MUST conform to the
   end-system and intermediate-system requirements of ISO 8473,
   including the required reassembly behavior.  An IS without partition
   repair has no added end-system requirement from this rule.  A
   repair-capable IS that lacks the end-system behavior does not
   conform.

14.5.2.  Dynamic Conformance

   Every supported receive function MUST follow the receive procedures
   in this document.  Every supported update function MUST follow the
   update procedures, and every transmitted PDU MUST have the required
   encoding. Every supported decision and forwarding function MUST
   follow its specified procedure.  An implementation that advertises a
   function but changes its externally visible procedure does not
   conform.

14.5.3.  Performance and Capacity

   A protocol implementation MUST declare its maximum number N of other
   ISs. For a Level 1 IS, N covers the area.  For a Level 2 IS, N covers
   the area and the Level 2 subdomain together.  It MUST also declare
   its maximum ISO 8473 forwarding rate.  An absent declaration makes
   the PICS incomplete.

   The implementation MUST reserve enough CPU, memory, and buffers for
   the update process to process N LSPs in each 30-second interval.  In
   a stable topology, one new LSP received on a circuit MUST reach all
   other applicable circuits within one second, even at the declared
   forwarding load.  Failure under those conditions invalidates the
   performance claim.

   In a stable topology at the declared forwarding load, the decision
   process MUST finish within five seconds.  For a Level 2 IS, the limit
   covers both levels together.  Other system tasks MUST use only
   resources left after these protocol requirements are met.  Exceeding
   the limit invalidates the performance claim.

   Between a pair of ISs, the receiver MUST NOT lose more than one fewer
   IIH PDU than the configured holding multiplier.  On a broadcast
   circuit it MUST process, without loss, at least 1000 divided by the
   configured minimum broadcast LSP transmission interval LSPs per
   second.  A receiver MAY drop excess LSPs offered above that rate.
   Loss below the required rate or excess IIH loss invalidates
   conformance.

   The PICS MUST give a forwarding rate for a stable maximum-size
   topology and for a maximally unstable topology.  The
   unstable-topology rate MUST be greater than zero.  If random PDU loss
   can start above a separate input rate, that rate MUST also be
   declared and MUST exceed the rated forwarding rate.  An omitted or
   zero required value makes the PICS incomplete.

   The IS MUST receive the maximum applicable ISH rate without loss when
   the one-second average forwarding rate stays within its claim and
   background ESH and LSP rates are not exceeded.  If it cannot satisfy
   both conditions, its performance claim is invalid.

   When overload forces PDU loss, the implementation SHOULD retain IIH
   PDUs before ESH PDUs, ESH PDUs before LSPs and SNPs, and control PDUs
   before data NPDUs.  Every traffic class MUST continue to make
   progress.  The transmission process MUST keep pace with reception for
   every PDU type.  Where transmission prioritization is needed, it MUST
   send IIH PDUs before ESH PDUs, ESH PDUs before LSPs and SNPs, and
   control PDUs before data NPDUs.

14.6.  Management-Information Conformance

14.6.1.  Roles and Encoding

   The Annex G MCS MUST select the manager role, the agent role, or
   both. It MUST select at least one role. Each claimed definition MUST
   support the Basic Encoding Rules transfer syntax identified by
   {joint-iso-itu-t asn1(1) basic-encoding(1)} and its specified
   procedure and semantics.

   For a manager-role claim, the Table G.3 entries are conditional on
   that role and form option group o.2. The manager MUST select at
   least one listed managed-object operation, notification capability,
   or action capability. Its MICS material comes from Annex H. Sections
   H.1 through H.7 apply to selected managed-object operations, H.8 to
   selected notifications, and H.9 to selected actions.

   For an agent-role claim, Table G.4 makes adjacency and
   destinationSystem mandatory.  Annex I supplies the corresponding
   MOCS material.  adjacency uses I.1 through I.6 and destinationSystem
   uses I.11 through I.14.

14.6.2.  Level Profiles and Name Bindings

   Every management implementation MUST support Level 1.  Level 2 is
   optional.  An agent that claims Level 2 MUST also support
   virtualAdjacency, destinationArea, and reachableAddress.
   virtualAdjacency uses Annex I.7 through I.10, destinationArea uses
   I.15 through I.18, and reachableAddress uses I.19 through I.24.

   destinationSystem-cLNS is a mandatory name binding.  The agent MUST
   select at least one of adjacency-linkage and
   adjacency-linkage-management.  virtualAdjacency-cLNS is mandatory
   when virtualAdjacency is supported.  destinationArea-cLNS is
   mandatory when destinationArea is supported.

   When reachableAddress is supported, the agent MUST select at least
   one of reachableAddress-linkage-imported and
   reachableAddress-linkage-management.  The Annex J MRCS operation
   conditions apply.  A management CREATE uses a reference object, and
   management DELETE is permitted only when the object contains no
   objects.  An automatic name binding MUST NOT provide management
   CREATE or DELETE.

14.6.3.  Conformance Statements

   A supplier claiming protocol conformance MUST complete the Annex A
   Protocol Implementation Conformance Statement (PICS).  It MUST
   identify the supplier and implementation, edition and implemented
   changes, protocol profiles, supported options, values, capacity, and
   performance.  The PICS also declares the timer-jitter function.  It
   does not declare timer-event precision.

   Every PICS MUST give Supplier, Contact point for queries about this
   PICS, and Implementation Name(s) and Version(s).  It MUST also give
   Operating system Name(s) and Version(s), Other Hardware and Operating
   Systems, and Claimed System Name(s) if different when those details
   are needed for full identification.  Those environment fields are
   conditional rather than universal.  The protocol summary MUST
   separately give the protocol version, implemented addenda and
   amendments, exception status, and statement date.

   An Annex G MCS MUST provide enough implementation and possible
   resident-system information to identify both uniquely.  Annex G does
   not impose a fixed universal list of operating-environment fields.

   A supplier claiming management-information conformance MUST complete
   the Annex G Management Conformance Summary (MCS).  It MUST complete
   every Management Information Conformance Statement (MICS), Managed
   Object Conformance Statement (MOCS), and Management Relationship
   Conformance Statement (MRCS) made applicable by its selections.

   For each supported timer-bearing object and package, the applicable
   MOCS MUST state the precision with which a timer generates its
   protocol event.  Timer-event precision MUST NOT be required as a PICS
   field.

   A formal ISO conformance claim requires pro formas technically
   identical to the normative ISO pro formas.  Their table numbers and
   item indexes MUST be preserved, although pagination and page headers
   may differ.  This document summarizes their requirements and does not
   reproduce their layout.

14.7.  Optional Features and Exceptions

   The PICS MUST declare support for Level 1 and Level 2 operation, each
   circuit type, authentication, optional metrics, equal-cost paths,
   downstream paths, partition repair, reachable addresses, call-metric
   increments, the reverse-path cache, and the timer-jitter function.
   It MUST state applicable protocol values, limits, capacity, and
   performance.  An undeclared optional feature cannot support a
   conformance claim.

   The management statements MUST declare manager and agent roles, IS
   levels, object classes, packages, attribute operations, actions,
   notifications, parameters, logging, and name bindings.  Package and
   attribute conditions in Annex I remain normative.  Conditions c1
   through c52, conditions in the Annex G tables, grouped optional
   choices, and actual-class or allomorph conditions MUST be evaluated
   individually.  They MUST NOT be treated as universal requirements.

   A supplier MAY add explanatory information.  If it records an
   exception to a mandatory or prohibited item, it MUST identify the
   exception and its reason.  An implementation that needs such an
   exception does not conform, even when a defect report could later
   change the requirement.

   One PICS MAY describe several configurations when every answer
   remains unambiguous.  A supplier MAY issue separate statements for
   different configurations.  A statement that leaves the active
   configuration unclear cannot establish conformance.

15.  Security Considerations

15.1.  Base Authentication

   The 2002 base protocol provides an optional authentication
   information field.  Authentication type 1 carries a cleartext
   password.  Type 255 is a routing-domain private method.  The base
   protocol defines no cryptographic integrity, confidentiality, replay
   protection, key negotiation, or key rollover for these types.

   A receiver using base authentication can reject a PDU with an
   incorrect value and can count and report the failure.  Cleartext
   authentication does not protect a password from an observer and does
   not stop an observer from replaying a captured PDU.  Its notification
   is detection, not prevention.

15.2.  Routing-State Attacks

   An attacker able to inject accepted IIH, LSP, or SNP PDUs can create
   or remove adjacencies, alter topology, purge state, or force repeated
   decision calculations.  These actions can divert traffic, create a
   black hole, or consume control-plane resources.  Checksums detect
   accidental corruption and do not authenticate the originator.

   The overload procedures, traffic-class scheduling, and performance
   limits reduce some failure effects.  They do not establish a security
   boundary. Operators need link-layer controls, restricted circuit
   access, and a later cryptographic authentication extension where the
   environment requires origin authentication.

15.3.  Management Security

   Management can change area addresses, metrics, timers, passwords,
   circuit mode, resource limits, static adjacencies, and reachable
   addresses.  It can also activate or deactivate a reachable address.
   Unauthorized management access can therefore alter forwarding as
   directly as forged control PDUs.

   The 2002 management model defines object behavior and conformance
   syntax. It does not provide transport confidentiality or access
   control for the management channel.  Deployments need independent
   authentication, authorization, integrity, and confidentiality for
   that channel.  Event logs and counters provide evidence after a
   change and do not authorize it.

15.4.  Later Security Extensions

   Cryptographic authentication defined by later IETF RFCs is an update
   to the base protocol.  It MUST NOT be presented as a requirement of
   the 2002 edition.  An implementation that claims such an RFC MUST
   follow that RFC's algorithm, key, and PDU coverage rules in addition
   to this base behavior.

16.  IANA Considerations

   This independent reconstruction requests no IANA action.  It does not
   allocate a PDU type, TLV code, authentication type, NLPID, object
   identifier, or registry value.

   The 2002 base assignments come from ISO/IEC 10589 and its referenced
   ISO namespaces.  Later IETF registries and allocations apply only
   through their defining RFCs.  This document has not been published or
   approved by the IETF, IANA, ISO, or IEC.

17.  References

17.1.  Normative References

   [ISO10589] ISO/IEC, "Information technology - Telecommunications and
              information exchange between systems - Intermediate System
              to Intermediate System intra-domain routeing information
              exchange protocol for use in conjunction with the protocol
              for providing the connectionless-mode network service (ISO
              8473)", ISO/IEC 10589:2002, Second Edition, November 2002.

   [ISO7498-1] ISO/IEC, "Information technology - Open Systems
               Interconnection - Basic Reference Model: The Basic
               Model", ISO/IEC 7498-1:1994.

   [ISO7498-3] ISO/IEC, "Information technology - Open Systems
               Interconnection - Basic Reference Model: Naming and
               addressing", ISO/IEC 7498-3:1997.

   [ISO7498-4] ISO/IEC, "Information processing systems - Open Systems
               Interconnection - Basic Reference Model - Part 4:
               Management framework", ISO/IEC 7498-4:1989.

   [ISO8208] ISO/IEC, "Information technology - Data communications -
             X.25 Packet Layer Protocol for Data Terminal Equipment",
             ISO/IEC 8208:2000.

   [ISO8348] ISO/IEC, "Information technology - Open Systems
             Interconnection - Network Service Definition", ISO/IEC
             8348:1996.

   [ISO8473] ISO/IEC, "Protocol for providing the connectionless-mode
             network service: Protocol specification", ISO/IEC
             8473-1:1998.

   [ISO8473-4] ISO/IEC, "Information technology - Protocol for providing
               the connectionless-mode network service - Part 4:
               Provision of the underlying service by a subnetwork that
               provides the OSI data link service", ISO/IEC 8473-4:1995.

   [ISO8648] ISO, "Information processing systems - Open Systems
             Interconnection - Internal organization of the Network
             Layer", ISO 8648:1988.

   [ISO8802-1] ISO/IEC, "Information technology - Telecommunications and
               information exchange between systems - Local and
               metropolitan area networks - Specific requirements -
               Part 1: Overview of Local Area Network Standards",
               ISO/IEC TR 8802-1:1997.

   [ISO8802-2] ISO/IEC, "Information technology - Telecommunications and
               information exchange between systems - Local and
               metropolitan area networks - Specific requirements -
               Part 2: Logical link control", ISO/IEC 8802-2:1998.

   [ISO8802-3] ISO/IEC, "Information technology - Telecommunications and
               information exchange between systems - Local and
               metropolitan area networks - Specific requirements -
               Part 3: Carrier sense multiple access with collision
               detection access method and physical layer
               specifications", ISO/IEC 8802-3:2000.

   [ISO8802-5] ISO/IEC, "Information technology - Telecommunications and
               information exchange between systems - Local and
               metropolitan area networks - Specific requirements -
               Part 5: Token ring access method and physical layer
               specifications", ISO/IEC 8802-5:1998.

   [ISO8802-6] ISO/IEC, "Information technology - Telecommunications and
               information exchange between systems - Local and
               metropolitan area networks - Specific requirements -
               Part 6: Distributed Queue Dual Bus access method and
               physical layer specifications", ISO/IEC 8802-6:1994.

   [ISO9314] ISO/IEC, "Information technology - Fibre Distributed Data
             Interface", ISO/IEC 9314, all parts.

   [ISO9542] ISO, "End system to Intermediate system routeing exchange
             protocol for use in conjunction with ISO 8473", ISO
             9542:1988.

   [ISO9575] ISO/IEC, "Information technology - Open Systems
             Interconnection - OSI Routeing Framework", ISO/IEC TR
             9575:1995.

   [ISO9577] ISO/IEC, "Information technology - Protocol identification
             in the network layer", ISO/IEC TR 9577:1999.

   [ISO15802-1] ISO/IEC, "Information technology - Telecommunications
                and information exchange between systems - Local and
                metropolitan area networks - Common specifications -
                Part 1: Medium Access Control service definition",
                ISO/IEC 15802-1:1995.

   [ISO10165-1] ISO/IEC, "Information technology - Open Systems
                Interconnection - Management Information Services -
                Structure of management information: Management
                Information Model", ISO/IEC 10165-1:1993.

   [ISO10165-4] ISO/IEC, "Structure of management information:
                Guidelines for the definition of managed objects",
                ISO/IEC 10165-4:1992.

   [ISO10165-6] ISO/IEC, "Structure of management information:
                Requirements and guidelines for implementation
                conformance statement proformas associated with OSI
                management", ISO/IEC 10165-6:1997.

   [ISO8824] ISO/IEC, "Information technology - Abstract Syntax
             Notation One: Specification of basic notation", ISO/IEC
             8824-1:1998.

   [ISO8825] ISO/IEC, "ASN.1 encoding rules: Specification of Basic
             Encoding Rules, Canonical Encoding Rules and Distinguished
             Encoding Rules", ISO/IEC 8825-1:1998.

   [ISO9646-1] ISO/IEC, "Information technology - Open Systems
               Interconnection - Conformance testing methodology and
               framework - Part 1: General concepts", ISO/IEC
               9646-1:1991.

   [ISO9646-2] ISO/IEC, "Information technology - Open Systems
               Interconnection - Conformance testing methodology and
               framework - Part 2: Abstract test suite specification",
               ISO/IEC 9646-2:1991.

   [ISO9646-7] ISO/IEC, "Information technology - Open Systems
               Interconnection - Conformance testing methodology and
               framework - Part 7: Implementation Conformance
               Statements", ISO/IEC 9646-7:1995.

   [ISO10733] ISO/IEC, "Elements of management information related to
              the OSI Network Layer", ISO/IEC 10733:1998.

   [RFC2119] Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
             Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119, March 1997.

   [RFC8174] Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119
             Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, May 2017.

17.2.  Informative References

   [RFC1142] Oran, D., Ed., "OSI IS-IS Intra-domain Routing Protocol",
             RFC 1142, February 1990.

   [RFC1195] Callon, R., "Use of OSI IS-IS for Routing in TCP/IP and
             Dual Environments", RFC 1195, December 1990.

   [RFC5120] Przygienda, T., Shen, N., and N. Sheth, "M-ISIS: Multi
             Topology Routing in IS-IS", RFC 5120, February 2008.

   [RFC5303] Katz, D., Saluja, R., and D. Eastlake, "Three-Way Handshake
             for IS-IS Point-to-Point Adjacencies", RFC 5303, October
             2008.

   [RFC5304] Li, T. and R. Atkinson, "IS-IS Cryptographic
             Authentication", RFC 5304, October 2008.

   [RFC5305] Li, T. and H. Smit, "IS-IS Extensions for Traffic
             Engineering", RFC 5305, October 2008.

   [RFC5306] Shand, M. and L. Ginsberg, "Restart Signaling for IS-IS",
             RFC 5306, October 2008.

   [RFC5308] Hopps, C., "Routing IPv6 with IS-IS", RFC 5308, October
             2008.

   [RFC5310] Bhatia, M., Manral, V., Li, T., Atkinson, R., White, R.,
             and M. Fanto, "IS-IS Generic Cryptographic Authentication",
             RFC 5310, February 2009.

   [RFC6232] Wei, F., Qin, Y., Li, Z., Li, T., and J. Dong, "Purge
             Originator Identification TLV for IS-IS", RFC 6232, May
             2011.


   [ISO-CATALOG] ISO, "ISO/IEC 10589:2002 catalogue record",
                 https://www.iso.org/standard/30932.html.

   [ISO-PREVIEW] iTeh Standards, "ISO/IEC 10589:2002 public preview",
                 https://standards.iteh.ai/catalog/standards/iso/
                 507d0e47-e106-40a4-8832-e1fc6d28d2d4/
                 iso-iec-10589-2002.

   [RFC926]  International Organization for Standardization, "Protocol
             for providing the connectionless mode network services",
             RFC 926, December 1984.

   [RFC3719] Parker, J., Ed., "Recommendations for Interoperable
             Networks using Intermediate System to Intermediate System
             (IS-IS)",
             RFC 3719, February 2004.

   [RFC3787] Parker, J., Ed., "Recommendations for Interoperable IP
             Networks using Intermediate System to Intermediate System
             (IS-IS)", RFC 3787, May 2004.

   [RFC4444] Parker, J., Ed., "Management Information Base for
             Intermediate System to Intermediate System (IS-IS)",
             RFC 4444, April 2006.

   [RFC7142] Shand, M. and L. Ginsberg, "Reclassification of RFC 1142 to
             Historic", RFC 7142, February 2014.

   [IANA-PDU] IANA, "IS-IS PDU Registry",
              https://www.iana.org/assignments/isis-pdu/.

   [IANA-TLV] IANA, "IS-IS TLV Codepoints",
              https://www.iana.org/assignments/isis-tlv-codepoints/.

   [FRR]     FRRouting Project, "FRRouting source tree", commit
             63984ebf6dfb7dc9f738601cbb498975a00bc2d1,
             https://github.com/FRRouting/frr/tree/
             63984ebf6dfb7dc9f738601cbb498975a00bc2d1.

   [ZE]      Ze Software, "Ze source tree", commit
             35f84e0609c3f8d6f67e28013110f716b9f89af2,
             https://github.com/ze-software/ze/tree/
             35f84e0609c3f8d6f67e28013110f716b9f89af2.

Appendix A.  Protocol Conformance Declaration

A.1.  Purpose

   This appendix summarizes the information in a protocol conformance
   declaration without reproducing the normative ISO PICS pro forma.  It
   is a review aid and cannot replace the exact form required for an ISO
   claim.

A.2.  Identification and Profile

   A claimant MUST identify the supplier, contact point, implementation
   name and version. It MUST identify the operating-system name and
   version, other hardware or operating systems, and claimed system
   names when that information is needed for full identification. The
   protocol summary MUST state the protocol version, implemented
   addenda, implemented amendments, exception-item status, and
   statement date.
   A Yes exception response means that the implementation does not
   conform. Missing required identity or lineage information makes the
   declaration incomplete.

   The declaration MUST state Level 1 and Level 2 support and every
   supported broadcast, point-to-point, ISO 8208 static, and dynamically
   assigned circuit profile.  It MUST state the supported system-ID
   lengths and whether the length is configurable.  An undeclared active
   profile invalidates the declaration for that configuration.

A.3.  Functional Options

   The declaration MUST state support for cleartext authentication,
   default and optional metrics, equal-cost and downstream paths,
   partition repair, reachable addresses, call-metric increments, a
   reverse-path cache, and each applicable PDU family.  It MUST
   distinguish mandatory, optional, conditional, prohibited, and
   inapplicable items.  A conditional item left unanswered makes the
   declaration incomplete.

A.4.  Capacity and Performance

   The declaration MUST include N, both required forwarding rates, and
   any higher input rate at which random PDU loss can begin.  It MUST
   state that the update, decision, receive, scheduling, and
   transmission criteria in Section 14.5.3 are met.  A declaration
   without the values cannot support a performance claim.

A.5.  Additional and Exception Information

   A claimant MAY attach information that explains a configuration or
   answer. If an answer conflicts with a mandatory or prohibited status,
   it MUST cite a separately identified exception and reason.  The
   exception records the deviation and does not preserve conformance.

Appendix B.  Management Conformance Declarations

B.1.  Management Conformance Summary

   The MCS identifies the implementation, contact, date, source
   standard, implemented corrigenda and amendments, manager and agent
   roles, and IS levels.  It points to every applicable MICS, MOCS, and
   MRCS.  A supplier claiming ISO management conformance MUST complete
   the exact normative MCS. This summary cannot replace it.

B.2.  Manager-Role Statement

   The MICS records supported attribute operations, object creation and
   deletion, notifications, actions, and parameters.  It identifies the
   object classes to which each operation applies.  A manager-role
   claimant MUST complete every selected item and each condition made
   applicable by that selection.  An omitted applicable item invalidates
   the claim.

B.3.  Agent-Role Object Statement

   The MOCS records each actual object class, package, attribute
   operation, notification, action, and parameter.  It distinguishes the
   standard class from a subclass or allomorphic class.  An agent-role
   claimant MUST complete the statement for adjacency,
   destination-system, and every other class made mandatory by its level
   and feature selections.  A missing object statement invalidates the
   agent claim.

B.4.  Name-Binding Statement

   The MRCS records automatic and management-created adjacency bindings,
   virtual-adjacency and destination bindings, and imported and
   management-created reachable-address bindings.  It also records
   permitted create and delete operations.  An agent MUST declare at
   least one binding for every supported object.  An undeclared binding
   cannot support the object claim.

Appendix C.  Edition Lineage and Annex Disposition

C.1.  Edition History

   The second edition dated 2002-11-15 replaced the 1992 first edition.
   Its foreword says it incorporated Corrigenda 1, 2, and 3 and
   Amendments 1 and 2. This reconstruction uses the second edition as
   the operative source.

   Amendment 2:1999 had introduced group composition and Minimum
   Spanning Tree multicast routing.  The 2002 operative text contains no
   Group State PDU, ESGC PDU, ISGC PDU, group-composition database, or
   multicast MST procedure. Its PDU list and annex structure also omit
   that machinery.  Amendment 2 is therefore edition history here and
   creates no base protocol requirement.

C.2.  Normative Annexes

   Normative Annex A supplies the PICS pro forma. Sections 14.5 and 14.7
   and Appendix A summarize its declaration duties. The exact tables are
   not reproduced.

   Normative Annex E supplies imported management classes, common
   attributes, counter and timer types, actions, notifications, and
   object identifiers. Sections 14.1 through 14.4 summarize their
   observable behavior. Its GDMO and ASN.1 modules are not reproduced.

   Normative Annex G supplies the MCS pro forma. Normative Annex H
   supplies the manager-role MICS pro forma. Normative Annex I supplies
   the agent-role MOCS pro forma. Normative Annex J supplies the
   name-binding MRCS pro forma. Section 14.6 and Appendix B summarize
   their declaration duties. The exact tables and item indexes are not
   reproduced.

   These summaries are navigation aids. They do not define a schema,
   identifier, package, operation, field matrix, or conformance item.
   Clause 11, Clause 12, and the normative annexes control those facts.

C.3.  Informative Annexes

   Informative Annex B explains the addressing and routing design.
   Informative Annex C gives database, SPF, and forwarding examples.
   Informative Annex D gives congestion-control and avoidance guidance.
   They clarify protocol behavior and add no conformance requirement.

   Informative Annex F is a bibliography.  It adds no protocol behavior
   and no conformance requirement.

Appendix D.  Compatibility with Later RFCs

D.1.  Base and Update Boundary

   This document describes the 2002 ISO base.  RFC 1142 is a public
   rendering of an earlier draft and is a secondary aid.  It does not
   override the 2002 source.  RFC 1195 adds IP and dual-environment
   routing and is outside this base.

   Later RFCs define extensions or corrections with their own
   conformance rules.  A base implementation MUST NOT advertise an
   extension merely because this document cites it.  An extension
   implementation MUST apply the extension's rules where they update or
   replace base behavior.

D.2.  Separated Extension Families

   RFC 5303 updates point-to-point adjacency establishment.  RFC 5304
   and RFC 5310 add cryptographic authentication.  RFC 5305 adds
   traffic-engineering information.  RFC 5306 adds restart signaling.
   RFC 5308 adds IPv6 routing. RFC 5120 adds multiple topologies.  RFC
   6232 adds purge-originator identification.  None of these behaviors
   is a rule of ISO/IEC 10589:2002.

   Minimum Spanning Tree multicast from Amendment 2 is unrelated to the
   multi-topology routing in RFC 5120.  An implementation MUST NOT infer
   one feature from support for the other.

Appendix E.  Source and Restatement Limits

E.1.  Independent Status and Source Boundary

   This text is an independently authored reconstruction.  It has not
   been submitted to, issued by, published by, or endorsed by ISO, IEC,
   the IETF, or IANA.  It claims no IETF stream or RFC publication
   status.  The label RFC-0000-ISIS is a document identifier for this
   reconstruction.

   ISO/IEC 10589:2002 is the authoritative source for formal ISO claims.
   The licensed edition was research material only.  This reconstruction
   grants no right to reproduce the International Standard and is not a
   substitute for obtaining it.  The ISO catalogue and the public iTeh
   preview identify the edition used here.

E.2.  Reconstruction Method

   The 2002 edition was reviewed clause by clause.  Six working maps
   tied each drafted section to its source clauses, annexes, or
   reconstruction rules.  The maps were then checked while the sections
   were assembled in protocol order.  The text uses new prose and
   independently drawn ASCII diagrams.

   RFC 1142 supplied a secondary public baseline.  RFC 7142 records its
   Historic status, so it never overrides the 2002 edition.  RFC 926 was
   consulted to clarify the inherited Fletcher checksum presentation.
   The ISO source controls if either RFC differs from the 2002 base.

   RFC 1195, RFC 3719, and RFC 3787 were used to identify later
   Internet profiles and interoperability guidance.  RFC 4444 was used
   to mark the boundary between the ISO management model and the later
   Internet MIB.  The IANA IS-IS PDU and TLV registries supplied current
   registry context only.  None of these sources enlarges the 2002 base
   protocol.

   FRRouting source at commit
   63984ebf6dfb7dc9f738601cbb498975a00bc2d1
   and Ze source at commit
   35f84e0609c3f8d6f67e28013110f716b9f89af2 were inspected only to
   find ambiguity and interoperability edges.
   Implementations were never treated as normative authority.

E.3.  Material Deliberately Not Reproduced

   This reconstruction omits only the original GDMO and ASN.1 module
   text and the original PICS, MCS, MICS, MOCS, and MRCS table layouts.
   It does not reproduce those source artifacts.

   Independently written prose and data lists record every normative
   identifier, numeric OID, package and field name, operation, default
   or permitted-value rule needed by the surrounding behavior, action
   postcondition, alarm and event requirement, and applicability
   condition.  The absence of the original layout does not permit a
   normative name or condition to be omitted.

   A formal ISO claimant still needs the ISO pro formas because their
   table numbers and item indexes MUST be preserved. A party
   reproducing the original schema text needs the ISO source. If this
   reconstruction conflicts with that source, the ISO source controls
   the ISO claim.

Authors' Addresses

   Ze Software Project
   https://github.com/ze-software/ze
